Page 4, Paragraph 1: boy,	what	do	you	make	of	that?”	His	eyes	sparkled,	and	he	sent	up	a	great	blue	triumphant
cloud	from	his	cigarette.
“The	paper	was	made	in	Bohemia,”	I	said.
“Precisely.	And	the	man	who	wrote	the	note	is	a	German.	Do	you	note	the	peculiar
construction	of	the	sentence—‘This	account	of	you	we	have	from	all	quarters	received.’	A
Frenchman	or	Russian	could	not	have	written	that.	It	is	the	German	who	is	so	uncourteous
to	his	verbs.	It	only	remains,	therefore,	to	discover	what	is	wanted	by	this	German	who
writes	upon	Bohemian	paper	and	prefers	wearing	a	mask	to	showing	his	face.	And	here	he
comes,	if	I	am	not	mistaken,	to	resolve	all	our	doubts.”
As	he	spoke	there	was	the	sharp	sound	of	horses’	hoofs	and	grating	wheels	against	the
curb,	followed	by	a	sharp	pull	at	the	bell.	Holmes	whistled.
“A	pair,	by	the	sound,”	said	he.	“Yes,”	he	continued,	glancing	out	of	the	window.	“A	nice
little	brougham	and	a	pair	of	beauties.	A	hundred	and	fifty	guineas	apiece.	There’s	money
in	this	case,	Watson,	if	there	is	nothing	else.”
“I	think	that	I	had	better	go,	Holmes.”
“Not	a	bit,	Doctor.	Stay	where	you	are.	I	am	lost	without	my	Boswell.	And	this	promises
to	be	interesting.	It	would	be	a	pity	to	**miss**	it.”
“But	your	client—”
“Never	mind	him.	I	may	want	your	help,	and	so	may	he.	Here	he	comes.	Sit	down	in	that
armchair,	Doctor,	and	give	us	your	best	attention.”
A	slow	and	heavy	step,	which	had	been	heard	upon	the	stairs	and	in	the	passage,	paused
immediately	outside	the	door.	Then	there	was	a	loud	and	authoritative	tap.
“Come	in!”	said	Holmes.
A	man	entered	who	could	hardly	have	been	less	than	six	feet	six	inches	in	height,	with	the
chest	and	limbs	of	a	Hercules.	His	dress	was	rich	with	a	richness	which	would,	in
England,	be	looked	upon	as	akin	to	bad	taste.	Heavy	bands	of	astrakhan	were	slashed
across	the	sleeves	and	fronts	of	his	double-breasted	coat,	while	the	deep	blue	cloak	which
was	thrown	over	his	shoulders	was	lined	with	flame-colored	silk	and	secured	at	the	neck
with	a	brooch	which	consisted	of	a	single	flaming	beryl.	Boots	which	extended	halfway	up
his	calves,	and	which	were	trimmed	at	the	tops	with	rich	brown	fur,	completed	the
impression	of	barbaric	opulence	which	was	suggested	by	his	whole	appearance.	He	carried
a	broad-brimmed	hat	in	his	hand,	while	he	wore	across	the	upper	part	of	his	face,
extending	down	past	the	cheekbones,	a	black	vizard	mask,	which	he	had	apparently
adjusted	that	very	moment,	for	his	hand	was	still	raised	to	it	as	he	entered.	From	the	lower
part	of	the	face	he	appeared	to	be	a	man	of	strong	character,	with	a	thick,	hanging	lip,	and
a	long,	straight	chin	suggestive	of	resolution	pushed	to	the	length	of	obstinacy.
“You	had	my	note?”	he	asked	with	a	deep	harsh	voice	and	a	strongly	marked	German
accent.	“I	told	you	that	I	would	call.”	He	looked	from	one	to	the	other	of	us,	as	if	uncertain
which	to	address.
“Pray	take	a	seat,”	said	Holmes.	“This	is	my	friend	and	colleague,	Dr.	Watson,	who	is
Page 9, Paragraph 1: “Well,	really!”	he	cried,	and	then	he	choked	and	laughed	again	until	he	was	obliged	to	lie
back,	limp	and	helpless,	in	the	chair.
“What	is	it?”
“It’s	quite	too	funny.	I	am	sure	you	could	never	guess	how	I	employed	my	morning,	or
what	I	ended	by	doing.”
“I	can’t	imagine.	I	suppose	that	you	have	been	watching	the	habits,	and	perhaps	the	house,
of	**miss**	Irene	Adler.”
“Quite	so;	but	the	sequel	was	rather	unusual.	I	will	tell	you,	however.	I	left	the	house	a
little	after	eight	o’clock	this	morning	in	the	character	of	a	groom	out	of	work.	There	is	a
wonderful	sympathy	and	freemasonry	among	horsy	men.	Be	one	of	them,	and	you	will
know	all	that	there	is	to	know.	I	soon	found	Briony	Lodge.	It	is	a	bijou	villa,	with	a	garden
at	the	back.	but	built	out	in	front	right	up	to	the	road,	two	stories.	Chubb	lock	to	the	door.
Large	sitting-room	on	the	right	side,	well	furnished,	with	long	windows	almost	to	the
floor,	and	those	preposterous	English	window	fasteners	which	a	child	could	open.	Behind
there	was	nothing	remarkable,	save	that	the	passage	window	could	be	reached	from	the
top	of	the	coach-house.	I	walked	round	it	and	examined	it	closely	from	every	point	of
view,	but	without	noting	anything	else	of	interest.
“I	then	lounged	down	the	street	and	found,	as	I	expected,	that	there	was	a	mews	in	a	lane
which	runs	down	by	one	wall	of	the	garden.	I	lent	the	ostlers	a	hand	in	rubbing	down	their
horses,	and	received	in	exchange	twopence,	a	glass	of	half	and	half,	two	fills	of	shag
tobacco,	and	as	much	information	as	I	could	desire	about	**miss**	Adler,	to	say	nothing	of
half	a	dozen	other	people	in	the	neighborhood	in	whom	I	was	not	in	the	least	interested,
but	whose	biographies	I	was	compelled	to	listen	to.”
“And	what	of	Irene	Adler?”	I	asked.
“Oh,	she	has	turned	all	the	men’s	heads	down	in	that	part.	She	is	the	daintiest	thing	under
a	bonnet	on	this	planet.	So	say	the	Serpentine-mews,	to	a	man.	She	lives	quietly,	sings	at
concerts,	drives	out	at	five	every	day,	and	returns	at	seven	sharp	for	dinner.	Seldom	goes
out	at	other	times,	except	when	she	sings.	Has	only	one	male	visitor,	but	a	good	deal	of
him.	He	is	dark,	handsome,	and	dashing,	never	calls	less	than	once	a	day,	and	often	twice.
He	is	a	Mr.	Godfrey	Norton,	of	the	Inner	Temple.	See	the	advantages	of	a	cabman	as	a
confidant.	They	had	driven	him	home	a	dozen	times	from	Serpentine-mews,	and	knew	all
about	him.	When	I	had	listened	to	all	they	had	to	tell,	I	began	to	walk	up	and	down	near
Briony	Lodge	once	more,	and	to	think	over	my	plan	of	campaign.
“This	Godfrey	Norton	was	evidently	an	important	factor	in	the	matter.	He	was	a	lawyer.
That	sounded	ominous.	What	was	the	relation	between	them,	and	what	the	object	of	his
repeated	visits?	Was	she	his	client,	his	friend,	or	his	mistress?	If	the	former,	she	had
probably	transferred	the	photograph	to	his	keeping.	If	the	latter,	it	was	less	likely.	On	the
issue	of	this	question	depended	whether	I	should	continue	my	work	at	Briony	Lodge,	or
turn	my	attention	to	the	gentleman’s	chambers	in	the	Temple.	It	was	a	delicate	point.	and	it
widened	the	field	of	my	inquiry.	I	fear	that	I	bore	you	with	these	details,	but	I	have	to	let
you	see	my	little	difficulties,	if	you	are	to	understand	the	situation.”
“I	am	following	you	closely,”	I	answered.
Page 11, Paragraph 1: it	was	the	thought	of	it	that	started	me	laughing	just	now.	It	seems	that	there	had	been
some	informality	about	their	license,	that	the	clergyman	absolutely	refused	to	marry	them
without	a	witness	of	some	sort,	and	that	my	lucky	appearance	saved	the	bridegroom	from
having	to	sally	out	into	the	streets	in	search	of	a	best	man.	The	bride	gave	me	a	sovereign,
and	I	mean	to	wear	it	on	my	watch-chain	in	memory	of	the	occasion.”
“This	is	a	very	unexpected	turn	of	affairs,”	said	I;	“and	what	then?”
“Well,	I	found	my	plans	very	seriously	menaced.	It	looked	as	if	the	pair	might	take	an
immediate	departure,	and	so	necessitate	very	prompt	and	energetic	measures	on	my	part.
At	the	church	door,	however,	they	separated,	he	driving	back	to	the	Temple,	and	she	to	her
own	house.	‘I	shall	drive	out	in	the	park	at	five	as	usual,’	she	said	as	she	left	him.	I	heard
no	more.	They	drove	away	in	different	directions,	and	I	went	off	to	make	my	own
arrangements.”
“Which	are?”
“Some	cold	beef	and	a	glass	of	beer,”	he	answered,	ringing	the	bell.	“I	have	been	too	busy
to	think	of	food,	and	I	am	likely	to	be	busier	still	this	evening.	By	the	way,	Doctor,	I	shall
want	your	cooperation.”
“I	shall	be	delighted.”
“You	don’t	mind	breaking	the	law?”
“Not	in	the	least.”
“Nor	running	a	chance	of	arrest?”
“Not	in	a	good	cause.”
“Oh,	the	cause	is	excellent!”
“Then	I	am	your	man.”
“I	was	sure	that	I	might	rely	on	you.”
“But	what	is	it	you	wish?”
“When	Mrs.	Turner	has	brought	in	the	tray	I	will	make	it	clear	to	you.	Now,”	he	said	as	he
turned	hungrily	on	the	simple	fare	that	our	landlady	had	provided,	“I	must	discuss	it	while
I	eat,	for	I	have	not	much	time.	It	is	nearly	five	now.	In	two	hours	we	must	be	on	the	scene
of	action.	**miss**	Irene,	or	Madame,	rather,	returns	from	her	drive	at	seven.	We	must	be	at
Briony	Lodge	to	meet	her.”
“And	what	then?”
“You	must	leave	that	to	me.	I	have	already	arranged	what	is	to	occur.	There	is	only	one
point	on	which	I	must	insist.	You	must	not	interfere,	come	what	may.	You	understand?”
“I	am	to	be	neutral?”
“To	do	nothing	whatever.	There	will	probably	be	some	small	unpleasantness.	Do	not	join
in	it.	It	will	end	in	my	being	conveyed	into	the	house.	Four	or	five	minutes	afterwards	the
sitting-room	window	will	open.	You	are	to	station	yourself	close	to	that	open	window.”
“Yes.”
Page 18, Paragraph 1: “Irene’s	photograph!”	he	cried.	“Certainly,	if	you	wish	it.”
“I	thank	your	Majesty.	Then	there	is	no	more	to	be	done	in	the	matter.	I	have	the	honor	to
wish	you	a	very	good-morning.”	He	bowed,	and,	turning	away	without	observing	the	hand
which	the	King	had	stretched	out	to	him,	he	set	off	in	my	company	for	his	chambers.
And	that	was	how	a	great	scandal	threatened	to	affect	the	kingdom	of	Bohemia,	and	how
the	best	plans	of	Mr.	Sherlock	Holmes	were	beaten	by	a	woman’s	wit.	He	used	to	make
merry	over	the	cleverness	of	women,	but	I	have	not	heard	him	do	it	of	late.	And	when	he
speaks	of	Irene	Adler,	or	when	he	refers	to	her	photograph,	it	is	always	under	the
honorable	title	of	the	woman.
ADVENTURE	II.	THE	RED-HEADED	LEAGUE
I	had	called	upon	my	friend,	Mr.	Sherlock	Holmes,	one	day	in	the	autumn	of	last	year	and
found	him	in	deep	conversation	with	a	very	stout,	florid-faced,	elderly	gentleman	with
fiery	red	hair.	With	an	apology	for	my	intrusion,	I	was	about	to	withdraw	when	Holmes
pulled	me	abruptly	into	the	room	and	closed	the	door	behind	me.
“You	could	not	possibly	have	come	at	a	better	time,	my	dear	Watson,”	he	said	cordially.
“I	was	afraid	that	you	were	engaged.”
“So	I	am.	Very	much	so.”
“Then	I	can	wait	in	the	next	room.”
“Not	at	all.	This	gentleman,	Mr.	Wilson,	has	been	my	partner	and	helper	in	many	of	my
most	successful	cases,	and	I	have	no	doubt	that	he	will	be	of	the	utmost	use	to	me	in	yours
also.”
The	stout	gentleman	half	rose	from	his	chair	and	gave	a	bob	of	greeting,	with	a	quick	little
questioning	glance	from	his	small	fat-encircled	eyes.
“Try	the	settee,”	said	Holmes,	relapsing	into	his	armchair	and	putting	his	fingertips
together,	as	was	his	custom	when	in	judicial	moods.	“I	know,	my	dear	Watson,	that	you
share	my	love	of	all	that	is	bizarre	and	outside	the	conventions	and	humdrum	routine	of
everyday	life.	You	have	shown	your	relish	for	it	by	the	enthusiasm	which	has	prompted
you	to	chronicle,	and,	if	you	will	excuse	my	saying	so,	somewhat	to	embellish	so	many	of
my	own	little	adventures.”
“Your	cases	have	indeed	been	of	the	greatest	interest	to	me,”	I	observed.
“You	will	remember	that	I	remarked	the	other	day,	just	before	we	went	into	the	very
simple	problem	presented	by	**miss**	Mary	Sutherland,	that	for	strange	effects	and
extraordinary	combinations	we	must	go	to	life	itself,	which	is	always	far	more	daring	than
any	effort	of	the	imagination.”
“A	proposition	which	I	took	the	liberty	of	doubting.”
“You	did,	Doctor,	but	none	the	less	you	must	come	round	to	my	view,	for	otherwise	I	shall
keep	on	piling	fact	upon	fact	on	you	until	your	reason	breaks	down	under	them	and
acknowledges	me	to	be	right.	Now,	Mr.	Jabez	Wilson	here	has	been	good	enough	to	call
upon	me	this	morning,	and	to	begin	a	narrative	which	promises	to	be	one	of	the	most
singular	which	I	have	listened	to	for	some	time.	You	have	heard	me	remark	that	the
Page 25, Paragraph 1: the	door	was	shut	and	locked,	with	a	little	square	of	card-board	hammered	on	to	the
middle	of	the	panel	with	a	tack.	Here	it	is,	and	you	can	read	for	yourself.”
He	held	up	a	piece	of	white	card-board	about	the	size	of	a	sheet	of	note-paper.	It	read	in
this	fashion:
THE	RED-HEADED	LEAGUE
IS
DISSOLVED.
October	9,	1890.
Sherlock	Holmes	and	I	surveyed	this	curt	announcement	and	the	rueful	face	behind	it,
until	the	comical	side	of	the	affair	so	completely	overtopped	every	other	consideration	that
we	both	burst	out	into	a	roar	of	laughter.
“I	cannot	see	that	there	is	anything	very	funny,”	cried	our	client,	flushing	up	to	the	roots	of
his	flaming	head.	“If	you	can	do	nothing	better	than	laugh	at	me,	I	can	go	elsewhere.”
“No,	no,”	cried	Holmes,	shoving	him	back	into	the	chair	from	which	he	had	half	risen.	“I
really	wouldn’t	**miss**	your	case	for	the	world.	It	is	most	refreshingly	unusual.	But	there	is,
if	you	will	excuse	my	saying	so,	something	just	a	little	funny	about	it.	Pray	what	steps	did
you	take	when	you	found	the	card	upon	the	door?”
“I	was	staggered,	sir.	I	did	not	know	what	to	do.	Then	I	called	at	the	offices	round,	but
none	of	them	seemed	to	know	anything	about	it.	Finally,	I	went	to	the	landlord,	who	is	an
accountant	living	on	the	ground-floor,	and	I	asked	him	if	he	could	tell	me	what	had
become	of	the	Red-headed	League.	He	said	that	he	had	never	heard	of	any	such	body.
Then	I	asked	him	who	Mr.	Duncan	Ross	was.	He	answered	that	the	name	was	new	to	him.
“‘Well,’	said	I,	‘the	gentleman	at	No.	4.’
“‘What,	the	red-headed	man?’
“‘Yes.’
“‘Oh,’	said	he,	‘his	name	was	William	Morris.	He	was	a	solicitor	and	was	using	my	room
as	a	temporary	convenience	until	his	new	premises	were	ready.	He	moved	out	yesterday.’
“‘Where	could	I	find	him?’
“‘Oh,	at	his	new	offices.	He	did	tell	me	the	address.	Yes,	17	King	Edward	Street,	near	St.
Paul’s.’
“I	started	off,	Mr.	Holmes,	but	when	I	got	to	that	address	it	was	a	manufactory	of	artificial
knee-caps,	and	no	one	in	it	had	ever	heard	of	either	Mr.	William	Morris	or	Mr.	Duncan
Ross.”
“And	what	did	you	do	then?”	asked	Holmes.
“I	went	home	to	Saxe-Coburg	Square,	and	I	took	the	advice	of	my	assistant.	But	he	could
not	help	me	in	any	way.	He	could	only	say	that	if	I	waited	I	should	hear	by	post.	But	that
was	not	quite	good	enough,	Mr.	Holmes.	I	did	not	wish	to	lose	such	a	place	without	a
struggle,	so,	as	I	had	heard	that	you	were	good	enough	to	give	advice	to	poor	folk	who
Page 30, Paragraph 1: “I	hope	a	wild	goose	may	not	prove	to	be	the	end	of	our	chase,”	observed	Mr.
Merryweather	gloomily.
“You	may	place	considerable	confidence	in	Mr.	Holmes,	sir,”	said	the	police	agent	loftily.
“He	has	his	own	little	methods,	which	are,	if	he	won’t	mind	my	saying	so,	just	a	little	too
theoretical	and	fantastic,	but	he	has	the	makings	of	a	detective	in	him.	It	is	not	too	much	to
say	that	once	or	twice,	as	in	that	business	of	the	Sholto	murder	and	the	Agra	treasure,	he
has	been	more	nearly	correct	than	the	official	force.”
“Oh,	if	you	say	so,	Mr.	Jones,	it	is	all	right,”	said	the	stranger	with	deference.	“Still,	I
confess	that	I	**miss**	my	rubber.	It	is	the	first	Saturday	night	for	seven-and-twenty	years	that
I	have	not	had	my	rubber.”
“I	think	you	will	find,”	said	Sherlock	Holmes,	“that	you	will	play	for	a	higher	stake	to-
night	than	you	have	ever	done	yet,	and	that	the	play	will	be	more	exciting.	For	you,	Mr.
Merryweather,	the	stake	will	be	some	30,000	pounds;	and	for	you,	Jones,	it	will	be	the
man	upon	whom	you	wish	to	lay	your	hands.”
“John	Clay,	the	murderer,	thief,	smasher,	and	forger.	He’s	a	young	man,	Mr.
Merryweather,	but	he	is	at	the	head	of	his	profession,	and	I	would	rather	have	my	bracelets
on	him	than	on	any	criminal	in	London.	He’s	a	remarkable	man,	is	young	John	Clay.	His
grandfather	was	a	royal	duke,	and	he	himself	has	been	to	Eton	and	Oxford.	His	brain	is	as
cunning	as	his	fingers,	and	though	we	meet	signs	of	him	at	every	turn,	we	never	know
where	to	find	the	man	himself.	He’ll	crack	a	crib	in	Scotland	one	week,	and	be	raising
money	to	build	an	orphanage	in	Cornwall	the	next.	I’ve	been	on	his	track	for	years	and
have	never	set	eyes	on	him	yet.”
“I	hope	that	I	may	have	the	pleasure	of	introducing	you	to-night.	I’ve	had	one	or	two	little
turns	also	with	Mr.	John	Clay,	and	I	agree	with	you	that	he	is	at	the	head	of	his	profession.
It	is	past	ten,	however,	and	quite	time	that	we	started.	If	you	two	will	take	the	first
hansom,	Watson	and	I	will	follow	in	the	second.”
Sherlock	Holmes	was	not	very	communicative	during	the	long	drive	and	lay	back	in	the
cab	humming	the	tunes	which	he	had	heard	in	the	afternoon.	We	rattled	through	an	endless
labyrinth	of	gas-lit	streets	until	we	emerged	into	Farrington	Street.
“We	are	close	there	now,”	my	friend	remarked.	“This	fellow	Merryweather	is	a	bank
director,	and	personally	interested	in	the	matter.	I	thought	it	as	well	to	have	Jones	with	us
also.	He	is	not	a	bad	fellow,	though	an	absolute	imbecile	in	his	profession.	He	has	one
positive	virtue.	He	is	as	brave	as	a	bulldog	and	as	tenacious	as	a	lobster	if	he	gets	his
claws	upon	anyone.	Here	we	are,	and	they	are	waiting	for	us.”
We	had	reached	the	same	crowded	thoroughfare	in	which	we	had	found	ourselves	in	the
morning.	Our	cabs	were	dismissed,	and,	following	the	guidance	of	Mr.	Merryweather,	we
passed	down	a	narrow	passage	and	through	a	side	door,	which	he	opened	for	us.	Within
there	was	a	small	corridor,	which	ended	in	a	very	massive	iron	gate.	This	also	was	opened,
and	led	down	a	flight	of	winding	stone	steps,	which	terminated	at	another	formidable	gate.
Mr.	Merryweather	stopped	to	light	a	lantern,	and	then	conducted	us	down	a	dark,	earth-
smelling	passage,	and	so,	after	opening	a	third	door,	into	a	huge	vault	or	cellar,	which	was
piled	all	round	with	crates	and	massive	boxes.
Page 36, Paragraph 1: clang	of	the	bell.
“I	have	seen	those	symptoms	before,”	said	Holmes,	throwing	his	cigarette	into	the	fire.
“Oscillation	upon	the	pavement	always	means	an	affaire	de	coeur.	She	would	like	advice,
but	is	not	sure	that	the	matter	is	not	too	delicate	for	communication.	And	yet	even	here	we
may	discriminate.	When	a	woman	has	been	seriously	wronged	by	a	man	she	no	longer
oscillates,	and	the	usual	symptom	is	a	broken	bell	wire.	Here	we	may	take	it	that	there	is	a
love	matter,	but	that	the	maiden	is	not	so	much	angry	as	perplexed,	or	grieved.	But	here
she	comes	in	person	to	resolve	our	doubts.”
As	he	spoke	there	was	a	tap	at	the	door,	and	the	boy	in	buttons.	entered	to	announce	**miss**
Mary	Sutherland,	while	the	lady	herself	loomed	behind	his	small	black	figure	like	a	full-
sailed	merchant-man	behind	a	tiny	pilot	boat.	Sherlock	Holmes	welcomed	her	with	the
easy	courtesy	for	which	he	was	remarkable,	and,	having	closed	the	door	and	bowed	her
into	an	armchair,	he	looked	her	over	in	the	minute	and	yet	abstracted	fashion	which	was
peculiar	to	him.
“Do	you	not	find,”	he	said,	“that	with	your	short	sight	it	is	a	little	trying	to	do	so	much
typewriting?”
“I	did	at	first,”	she	answered,	“but	now	I	know	where	the	letters	are	without	looking.”
Then,	suddenly	realizing	the	full	purport	of	his	words,	she	gave	a	violent	start	and	looked
up,	with	fear	and	astonishment	upon	her	broad,	good-humoured	face.	“You’ve	heard	about
me,	Mr.	Holmes,”	she	cried,	“else	how	could	you	know	all	that?”
“Never	mind,”	said	Holmes,	laughing;	“it	is	my	business	to	know	things.	Perhaps	I	have
trained	myself	to	see	what	others	overlook.	If	not,	why	should	you	come	to	consult	me?”
“I	came	to	you,	sir,	because	I	heard	of	you	from	Mrs.	Etherege,	whose	husband	you	found
so	easy	when	the	police	and	everyone	had	given	him	up	for	dead.	Oh,	Mr.	Holmes,	I	wish
you	would	do	as	much	for	me.	I’m	not	rich,	but	still	I	have	a	hundred	a	year	in	my	own
right,	besides	the	little	that	I	make	by	the	machine,	and	I	would	give	it	all	to	know	what
has	become	of	Mr.	Hosmer	Angel.”
“Why	did	you	come	away	to	consult	me	in	such	a	hurry?”	asked	Sherlock	Holmes,	with
his	finger-tips	together	and	his	eyes	to	the	ceiling.
Again	a	startled	look	came	over	the	somewhat	vacuous	face	of	**miss**	Mary	Sutherland.
“Yes,	I	did	bang	out	of	the	house,”	she	said,	“for	it	made	me	angry	to	see	the	easy	way	in
which	Mr.	Windibank—that	is,	my	father—took	it	all.	He	would	not	go	to	the	police,	and
he	would	not	go	to	you,	and	so	at	last,	as	he	would	do	nothing	and	kept	on	saying	that
there	was	no	harm	done,	it	made	me	mad,	and	I	just	on	with	my	things	and	came	right
away	to	you.”
“Your	father,”	said	Holmes,	“your	stepfather,	surely,	since	the	name	is	different.”
“Yes,	my	stepfather.	I	call	him	father,	though	it	sounds	funny,	too,	for	he	is	only	five	years
and	two	months	older	than	myself.”
“And	your	mother	is	alive?”
“Oh,	yes,	mother	is	alive	and	well.	I	wasn’t	best	pleased,	Mr.	Holmes,	when	she	married
again	so	soon	after	father’s	death,	and	a	man	who	was	nearly	fifteen	years	younger	than
Page 37, Paragraph 1: herself.	Father	was	a	plumber	in	the	Tottenham	Court	Road,	and	he	left	a	tidy	business
behind	him,	which	mother	carried	on	with	Mr.	Hardy,	the	foreman;	but	when	Mr.
Windibank	came	he	made	her	sell	the	business,	for	he	was	very	superior,	being	a	traveller
in	wines.	They	got	4700	pounds	for	the	goodwill	and	interest,	which	wasn’t	near	as	much
as	father	could	have	got	if	he	had	been	alive.”
I	had	expected	to	see	Sherlock	Holmes	impatient	under	this	rambling	and	inconsequential
narrative,	but,	on	the	contrary	he	had	listened	with	the	greatest	concentration	of	attention.
“Your	own	little	income,”	he	asked,	“does	it	come	out	of	the	business?”
“Oh,	no,	sir.	It	is	quite	separate	and	was	left	me	by	my	uncle	Ned	in	Auckland.	It	is	in
New	Zealand	stock,	paying	4	1/2	per	cent.	Two	thousand	five	hundred	pounds	was	the
amount,	but	I	can	only	touch	the	interest.”
“You	interest	me	extremely,”	said	Holmes.	“And	since	you	draw	so	large	a	sum	as	a
hundred	a	year,	with	what	you	earn	into	the	bargain,	you	no	doubt	travel	a	little	and
indulge	yourself	in	every	way.	I	believe	that	a	single	lady	can	get	on	very	nicely	upon	an
income	of	about	60	pounds.”
“I	could	do	with	much	less	than	that,	Mr.	Holmes,	but	you	understand	that	as	long	as	I	live
at	home	I	don’t	wish	to	be	a	burden	to	them,	and	so	they	have	the	use	of	the	money	just
while	I	am	staying	with	them.	Of	course,	that	is	only	just	for	the	time.	Mr.	Windibank
draws	my	interest	every	quarter	and	pays	it	over	to	mother,	and	I	find	that	I	can	do	pretty
well	with	what	I	earn	at	typewriting.	It	brings	me	twopence	a	sheet,	and	I	can	often	do
from	fifteen	to	twenty	sheets	in	a-day.”
“You	have	made	your	position	very	clear	to	me,”	said	Holmes.	“This	is	my	friend,	Dr.
Watson,	before	whom	you	can	speak	as	freely	as	before	myself.	Kindly	tell	us	now	all
about	your	connection	with	Mr.	Hosmer	Angel.”
A	flush	stole	over	**miss**	Sutherland’s	face,	and	she	picked	nervously	at	the	fringe	of	her
jacket.	“I	met	him	first	at	the	gasfitters’	ball,”	she	said.	“They	used	to	send	father	tickets
when	he	was	alive,	and	then	afterwards	they	remembered	us,	and	sent	them	to	mother.	Mr.
Windibank	did	not	wish	us	to	go.	He	never	did	wish	us	to	go	anywhere.	He	would	get
quite	mad	if	I	wanted	so	much	as	to	join	a	Sunday-school	treat.	But	this	time	I	was	set	on
going,	and	I	would	go;	for	what	right	had	he	to	prevent?	He	said	the	folk	were	not	fit	for
us	to	know,	when	all	father’s	friends	were	to	be	there.	And	he	said	that	I	had	nothing	fit	to
wear,	when	I	had	my	purple	plush	that	I	had	never	so	much	as	taken	out	of	the	drawer.	At
last,	when	nothing	else	would	do,	he	went	off	to	France	upon	the	business	of	the	firm,	but
we	went,	mother	and	I,	with	Mr.	Hardy,	who	used	to	be	our	foreman,	and	it	was	there	I
met	Mr.	Hosmer	Angel.”
“I	suppose,”	said	Holmes,	“that	when	Mr.	Windibank	came	back	from	France	he	was	very
annoyed	at	your	having	gone	to	the	ball.”
“Oh,	well,	he	was	very	good	about	it.	He	laughed,	I	remember,	and	shrugged	his
shoulders,	and	said	there	was	no	use	denying	anything	to	a	woman,	for	she	would	have	her
way.”
“I	see.	Then	at	the	gasfitters’	ball	you	met,	as	I	understand,	a	gentleman	called	Mr.	Hosmer
Angel.”
Page 42, Paragraph 1: back	to	business,	Watson.	Would	you	mind	reading	me	the	advertised	description	of	Mr.
Hosmer	Angel?”
I	held	the	little	printed	slip	to	the	light.
“Missing	[it	said]	on	the	morning	of	the	fourteenth,	a	gentleman	named	Hosmer	Angel.
About	five	ft.	seven	in.	in	height;	strongly	built,	sallow	complexion,	black	hair,	a	little
bald	in	the	centre,	bushy,	black	side-whiskers	and	moustache;	tinted	glasses,	slight
infirmity	of	speech.	Was	dressed,	when	last	seen,	in	black	frock-coat	faced	with	silk,	black
waistcoat,	gold	Albert	chain,	and	gray	Harris	tweed	trousers,	with	brown	gaiters	over
elastic-sided	boots.	Known	to	have	been	employed	in	an	office	in	Leadenhall	Street.
Anybody	bringing—”
“That	will	do,”	said	Holmes.	“As	to	the	letters,”	he	continued,	glancing	over	them,	“they
are	very	commonplace.	Absolutely	no	clew	in	them	to	Mr.	Angel,	save	that	he	quotes
Balzac	once.	There	is	one	remarkable	point,	however,	which	will	no	doubt	strike	you.”
“They	are	typewritten,”	I	remarked.
“Not	only	that,	but	the	signature	is	typewritten.	Look	at	the	neat	little	‘Hosmer	Angel’	at
the	bottom.	There	is	a	date,	you	see,	but	no	superscription	except	Leadenhall	Street,	which
is	rather	vague.	The	point	about	the	signature	is	very	suggestive	—in	fact,	we	may	call	it
conclusive.”
“Of	what?”
“My	dear	fellow,	is	it	possible	you	do	not	see	how	strongly	it	bears	upon	the	case?”
“I	cannot	say	that	I	do	unless	it	were	that	he	wished	to	be	able	to	deny	his	signature	if	an
action	for	breach	of	promise	were	instituted.”
“No,	that	was	not	the	point.	However,	I	shall	write	two	letters,	which	should	settle	the
matter.	One	is	to	a	firm	in	the	City,	the	other	is	to	the	young	lady’s	stepfather,	Mr.
Windibank,	asking	him	whether	he	could	meet	us	here	at	six	o’clock	tomorrow	evening.	It
is	just	as	well	that	we	should	do	business	with	the	male	relatives.	And	now,	Doctor,	we
can	do	nothing	until	the	answers	to	those	letters	come,	so	we	may	put	our	little	problem
upon	the	shelf	for	the	interim.”
I	had	had	so	many	reasons	to	believe	in	my	friend’s	subtle	powers	of	reasoning	and
extraordinary	energy	in	action	that	I	felt	that	he	must	have	some	solid	grounds	for	the
assured	and	easy	demeanour	with	which	he	treated	the	singular	mystery	which	he	had
been	called	upon	to	fathom.	Once	only	had	I	known	him	to	fail,	in	the	case	of	the	King	of
Bohemia	and	of	the	Irene	Adler	photograph;	but	when	I	looked	back	to	the	weird	business
of	‘The	Sign	of	Four’,	and	the	extraordinary	circumstances	connected	with	‘A	Study	in
Scarlet’,	I	felt	that	it	would	be	a	strange	tangle	indeed	which	he	could	not	unravel.
I	left	him	then,	still	puffing	at	his	black	clay	pipe,	with	the	conviction	that	when	I	came
again	on	the	next	evening	I	would	find	that	he	held	in	his	hands	all	the	clews	which	would
lead	up	to	the	identity	of	the	disappearing	bridegroom	of	**miss**	Mary	Sutherland.
A	professional	case	of	great	gravity	was	engaging	my	own	attention	at	the	time,	and	the
whole	of	next	day	I	was	busy	at	the	bedside	of	the	sufferer.	It	was	not	until	close	upon	six
o’clock	that	I	found	myself	free	and	was	able	to	spring	into	a	hansom	and	drive	to	Baker
Page 43, Paragraph 1: Street,	half	afraid	that	I	might	be	too	late	to	assist	at	the	denouement	of	the	little	mystery.	I
found	Sherlock	Holmes	alone,	however,	half	asleep,	with	his	long,	thin	form	curled	up	in
the	recesses	of	his	armchair.	A	formidable	array	of	bottles	and	test-tubes,	with	the	pungent
cleanly	smell	of	hydrochloric	acid,	told	me	that	he	had	spent	his	day	in	the	chemical	work
which	was	so	dear	to	him.
“Well,	have	you	solved	it?”	I	asked	as	I	entered.
“Yes.	It	was	the	bisulphate	of	baryta.”
“No,	no,	the	mystery!”	I	cried.
“Oh,	that!	I	thought	of	the	salt	that	I	have	been	working	upon.	There	was	never	any
mystery	in	the	matter,	though,	as	I	said	yesterday,	some	of	the	details	are	of	interest.	The
only	drawback	is	that	there	is	no	law,	I	fear,	that	can	touch	the	scoundrel.”
“Who	was	he,	then,	and	what	was	his	object	in	deserting	**miss**	Sutherland?”
The	question	was	hardly	out	of	my	mouth,	and	Holmes	had	not	yet	opened	his	lips	to
reply,	when	we	heard	a	heavy	footfall	in	the	passage	and	a	tap	at	the	door.
“This	is	the	girl’s	stepfather,	Mr.	James	Windibank,”	said	Holmes.	“He	has	written	to	me
to	say	that	he	would	be	here	at	six.	Come	in!”
The	man	who	entered	was	a	sturdy,	middle-sized	fellow,	some	thirty	years	of	age,	clean-
shaven,	and	sallow-skinned,	with	a	bland,	insinuating	manner,	and	a	pair	of	wonderfully
sharp	and	penetrating	gray	eyes.	He	shot	a	questioning	glance	at	each	of	us,	placed	his
shiny	top-hat	upon	the	sideboard,	and	with	a	slight	bow	sidled	down	into	the	nearest	chair.
“Good-evening,	Mr.	James	Windibank,”	said	Holmes.	“I	think	that	this	typewritten	letter
is	from	you,	in	which	you	made	an	appointment	with	me	for	six	o’clock?”
“Yes,	sir.	I	am	afraid	that	I	am	a	little	late,	but	I	am	not	quite	my	own	master,	you	know.	I
am	sorry	that	**miss**	Sutherland	has	troubled	you	about	this	little	matter,	for	I	think	it	is	far
better	not	to	wash	linen	of	the	sort	in	public.	It	was	quite	against	my	wishes	that	she	came,
but	she	is	a	very	excitable,	impulsive	girl,	as	you	may	have	noticed,	and	she	is	not	easily
controlled	when	she	has	made	up	her	mind	on	a	point.	Of	course,	I	did	not	mind	you	so
much,	as	you	are	not	connected	with	the	official	police,	but	it	is	not	pleasant	to	have	a
family	misfortune	like	this	noised	abroad.	Besides,	it	is	a	useless	expense,	for	how	could
you	possibly	find	this	Hosmer	Angel?”
“On	the	contrary,”	said	Holmes	quietly;	“I	have	every	reason	to	believe	that	I	will	succeed
in	discovering	Mr.	Hosmer	Angel.”
Mr.	Windibank	gave	a	violent	start	and	dropped	his	gloves.	“I	am	delighted	to	hear	it,”	he
said.
“It	is	a	curious	thing,”	remarked	Holmes,	“that	a	typewriter	has	really	quite	as	much
individuality	as	a	man’s	handwriting.	Unless	they	are	quite	new,	no	two	of	them	write
exactly	alike.	Some	letters	get	more	worn	than	others,	and	some	wear	only	on	one	side.
Now,	you	remark	in	this	note	of	yours,	Mr.	Windibank,	that	in	every	case	there	is	some
little	slurring	over	of	the	‘e,’	and	a	slight	defect	in	the	tail	of	the	‘r.’	There	are	fourteen
other	characteristics,	but	those	are	the	more	obvious.”
Page 45, Paragraph 1: eyes	with	tinted	glasses,	masked	the	face	with	a	moustache	and	a	pair	of	bushy	whiskers,
sunk	that	clear	voice	into	an	insinuating	whisper,	and	doubly	secure	on	account	of	the
girl’s	short	sight,	he	appears	as	Mr.	Hosmer	Angel,	and	keeps	off	other	lovers	by	making
love	himself.”
“It	was	only	a	joke	at	first,”	groaned	our	visitor.	“We	never	thought	that	she	would	have
been	so	carried	away.”
“Very	likely	not.	However	that	may	be,	the	young	lady	was	very	decidedly	carried	away,
and,	having	quite	made	up	her	mind	that	her	stepfather	was	in	France,	the	suspicion	of
treachery	never	for	an	instant	entered	her	mind.	She	was	flattered	by	the	gentleman’s
attentions,	and	the	effect	was	increased	by	the	loudly	expressed	admiration	of	her	mother.
Then	Mr.	Angel	began	to	call,	for	it	was	obvious	that	the	matter	should	be	pushed	as	far	as
it	would	go	if	a	real	effect	were	to	be	produced.	There	were	meetings,	and	an	engagement,
which	would	finally	secure	the	girl’s	affections	from	turning	towards	anyone	else.	But	the
deception	could	not	be	kept	up	forever.	These	pretended	journeys	to	France	were	rather
cumbrous.	The	thing	to	do	was	clearly	to	bring	the	business	to	an	end	in	such	a	dramatic
manner	that	it	would	leave	a	permanent	impression	upon	the	young	lady’s	mind	and
prevent	her	from	looking	upon	any	other	suitor	for	some	time	to	come.	Hence	those	vows
of	fidelity	exacted	upon	a	Testament,	and	hence	also	the	allusions	to	a	possibility	of
something	happening	on	the	very	morning	of	the	wedding.	James	Windibank	wished	**miss**
Sutherland	to	be	so	bound	to	Hosmer	Angel,	and	so	uncertain	as	to	his	fate,	that	for	ten
years	to	come,	at	any	rate,	she	would	not	listen	to	another	man.	As	far	as	the	church	door
he	brought	her,	and	then,	as	he	could	go	no	farther,	he	conveniently	vanished	away	by	the
old	trick	of	stepping	in	at	one	door	of	a	four-wheeler	and	out	at	the	other.	I	think	that	was
the	chain	of	events,	Mr.	Windibank!”
Our	visitor	had	recovered	something	of	his	assurance	while	Holmes	had	been	talking,	and
he	rose	from	his	chair	now	with	a	cold	sneer	upon	his	pale	face.
“It	may	be	so,	or	it	may	not.	Mr.	Holmes,”	said	he,	“but	if	you	are	so	very	sharp	you	ought
to	be	sharp	enough	to	know	that	it	is	you	who	are	breaking	the	law	now,	and	not	me.	I
have	done	nothing	actionable	from	the	first,	but	as	long	as	you	keep	that	door	locked	you
lay	yourself	open	to	an	action	for	assault	and	illegal	constraint.”
“The	law	cannot,	as	you	say,	touch	you,”	said	Holmes,	unlocking	and	throwing	open	the
door,	“yet	there	never	was	a	man	who	deserved	punishment	more.	If	the	young	lady	has	a
brother	or	a	friend,	he	ought	to	lay	a	whip	across	your	shoulders.	By	Jove!”	he	continued,
flushing	up	at	the	sight	of	the	bitter	sneer	upon	the	man’s	face,	“it	is	not	part	of	my	duties
to	my	client,	but	here’s	a	hunting	crop	handy,	and	I	think	I	shall	just	treat	myself	to—”	He
took	two	swift	steps	to	the	whip,	but	before	he	could	grasp	it	there	was	a	wild	clatter	of
steps	upon	the	stairs,	the	heavy	hall	door	banged,	and	from	the	window	we	could	see	Mr.
James	Windibank	running	at	the	top	of	his	speed	down	the	road.
“There’s	a	cold-blooded	scoundrel!”	said	Holmes,	laughing,	as	he	threw	himself	down
into	his	chair	once	more.	“That	fellow	will	rise	from	crime	to	crime	until	he	does
something	very	bad,	and	ends	on	a	gallows.	The	case	has,	in	some	respects,	been	not
entirely	devoid	of	interest.”
“I	cannot	now	entirely	see	all	the	steps	of	your	reasoning,”	I	remarked.
Page 46, Paragraph 1: “Well,	of	course	it	was	obvious	from	the	first	that	this	Mr.	Hosmer	Angel	must	have	some
strong	object	for	his	curious	conduct,	and	it	was	equally	clear	that	the	only	man	who	really
profited	by	the	incident,	as	far	as	we	could	see,	was	the	stepfather.	Then	the	fact	that	the
two	men	were	never	together,	but	that	the	one	always	appeared	when	the	other	was	away,
was	suggestive.	So	were	the	tinted	spectacles	and	the	curious	voice,	which	both	hinted	at	a
disguise,	as	did	the	bushy	whiskers.	My	suspicions	were	all	confirmed	by	his	peculiar
action	in	typewriting	his	signature,	which,	of	course,	inferred	that	his	handwriting	was	so
familiar	to	her	that	she	would	recognize	even	the	smallest	sample	of	it.	You	see	all	these
isolated	facts,	together	with	many	minor	ones,	all	pointed	in	the	same	direction.”
“And	how	did	you	verify	them?”
“Having	once	spotted	my	man,	it	was	easy	to	get	corroboration.	I	knew	the	firm	for	which
this	man	worked.	Having	taken	the	printed	description.	I	eliminated	everything	from	it
which	could	be	the	result	of	a	disguise—the	whiskers,	the	glasses,	the	voice,	and	I	sent	it
to	the	firm,	with	a	request	that	they	would	inform	me	whether	it	answered	to	the
description	of	any	of	their	travellers.	I	had	already	noticed	the	peculiarities	of	the
typewriter,	and	I	wrote	to	the	man	himself	at	his	business	address	asking	him	if	he	would
come	here.	As	I	expected,	his	reply	was	typewritten	and	revealed	the	same	trivial	but
characteristic	defects.	The	same	post	brought	me	a	letter	from	Westhouse	&	Marbank,	of
Fenchurch	Street,	to	say	that	the	description	tallied	in	every	respect	with	that	of	their
employee,	James	Windibank.	Voila	tout!”
“And	**miss**	Sutherland?”
“If	I	tell	her	she	will	not	believe	me.	You	may	remember	the	old	Persian	saying,	‘There	is
danger	for	him	who	taketh	the	tiger	cub,	and	danger	also	for	whoso	snatches	a	delusion
from	a	woman.’	There	is	as	much	sense	in	Hafiz	as	in	Horace,	and	as	much	knowledge	of
the	world.”
ADVENTURE	IV.	THE	BOSCOMBE	VALLEY	MYSTERY
We	were	seated	at	breakfast	one	morning,	my	wife	and	I,	when	the	maid	brought	in	a
telegram.	It	was	from	Sherlock	Holmes	and	ran	in	this	way:
Have	you	a	couple	of	days	to	spare?	Have	just	been	wired	for	from	the	west	of	England	in
connection	with	Boscombe	Valley	tragedy.	Shall	be	glad	if	you	will	come	with	me.	Air
and	scenery	perfect.	Leave	Paddington	by	the	11:15.
“What	do	you	say,	dear?”	said	my	wife,	looking	across	at	me.	“Will	you	go?”
“I	really	don’t	know	what	to	say.	I	have	a	fairly	long	list	at	present.”
“Oh,	Anstruther	would	do	your	work	for	you.	You	have	been	looking	a	little	pale	lately.	I
think	that	the	change	would	do	you	good,	and	you	are	always	so	interested	in	Mr.	Sherlock
Holmes’s	cases.”
“I	should	be	ungrateful	if	I	were	not,	seeing	what	I	gained	through	one	of	them,”	I
answered.	“But	if	I	am	to	go,	I	must	pack	at	once,	for	I	have	only	half	an	hour.”
My	experience	of	camp	life	in	Afghanistan	had	at	least	had	the	effect	of	making	me	a
prompt	and	ready	traveller.	My	wants	were	few	and	simple,	so	that	in	less	than	the	time
stated	I	was	in	a	cab	with	my	valise,	rattling	away	to	Paddington	Station.	Sherlock	Holmes
Page 49, Paragraph 1: heard	Mr.	McCarthy	the	elder	using	very	strong	language	to	his	son,	and	she	saw	the	latter
raise	up	his	hand	as	if	to	strike	his	father.	She	was	so	frightened	by	their	violence	that	she
ran	away	and	told	her	mother	when	she	reached	home	that	she	had	left	the	two	McCarthys
quarrelling	near	Boscombe	Pool,	and	that	she	was	afraid	that	they	were	going	to	fight.	She
had	hardly	said	the	words	when	young	Mr.	McCarthy	came	running	up	to	the	lodge	to	say
that	he	had	found	his	father	dead	in	the	wood,	and	to	ask	for	the	help	of	the	lodge-keeper.
He	was	much	excited,	without	either	his	gun	or	his	hat,	and	his	right	hand	and	sleeve	were
observed	to	be	stained	with	fresh	blood.	On	following	him	they	found	the	dead	body
stretched	out	upon	the	grass	beside	the	pool.	The	head	had	been	beaten	in	by	repeated
blows	of	some	heavy	and	blunt	weapon.	The	injuries	were	such	as	might	very	well	have
been	inflicted	by	the	butt-end	of	his	son’s	gun,	which	was	found	lying	on	the	grass	within
a	few	paces	of	the	body.	Under	these	circumstances	the	young	man	was	instantly	arrested,
and	a	verdict	of	‘wilful	murder’	having	been	returned	at	the	inquest	on	Tuesday,	he	was	on
Wednesday	brought	before	the	magistrates	at	Ross,	who	have	referred	the	case	to	the	next
Assizes.	Those	are	the	main	facts	of	the	case	as	they	came	out	before	the	coroner	and	the
police-court.”
“I	could	hardly	imagine	a	more	damning	case,”	I	remarked.	“If	ever	circumstantial
evidence	pointed	to	a	criminal	it	does	so	here.”
“Circumstantial	evidence	is	a	very	tricky	thing,”	answered	Holmes	thoughtfully.	“It	may
seem	to	point	very	straight	to	one	thing,	but	if	you	shift	your	own	point	of	view	a	little,
you	may	find	it	pointing	in	an	equally	uncompromising	manner	to	something	entirely
different.	It	must	be	confessed,	however,	that	the	case	looks	exceedingly	grave	against	the
young	man,	and	it	is	very	possible	that	he	is	indeed	the	culprit.	There	are	several	people	in
the	neighborhood,	however,	and	among	them	**miss**	Turner,	the	daughter	of	the	neighboring
landowner,	who	believe	in	his	innocence,	and	who	have	retained	Lestrade,	whom	you	may
recollect	in	connection	with	‘A	Study	in	Scarlet’,	to	work	out	the	case	in	his	interest.
Lestrade,	being	rather	puzzled,	has	referred	the	case	to	me,	and	hence	it	is	that	two
middle-aged	gentlemen	are	flying	westward	at	fifty	miles	an	hour	instead	of	quietly
digesting	their	breakfasts	at	home.”
“I	am	afraid,”	said	I,	“that	the	facts	are	so	obvious	that	you	will	find	little	credit	to	be
gained	out	of	this	case.”
“There	is	nothing	more	deceptive	than	an	obvious	fact,”	he	answered,	laughing.	“Besides,
we	may	chance	to	hit	upon	some	other	obvious	facts	which	may	have	been	by	no	means
obvious	to	Mr.	Lestrade.	You	know	me	too	well	to	think	that	I	am	boasting	when	I	say	that
I	shall	either	confirm	or	destroy	his	theory	by	means	which	he	is	quite	incapable	of
employing,	or	even	of	understanding.	To	take	the	first	example	to	hand,	I	very	clearly
perceive	that	in	your	bedroom	the	window	is	upon	the	right-hand	side,	and	yet	I	question
whether	Mr.	Lestrade	would	have	noted	even	so	self-evident	a	thing	as	that.”
“How	on	earth—”
“My	dear	fellow,	I	know	you	well.	I	know	the	military	neatness	which	characterizes	you.
You	shave	every	morning,	and	in	this	season	you	shave	by	the	sunlight;	but	since	your
shaving	is	less	and	less	complete	as	we	get	farther	back	on	the	left	side,	until	it	becomes
positively	slovenly	as	we	get	round	the	angle	of	the	jaw,	it	is	surely	very	clear	that	that
Page 53, Paragraph 1: platform.	In	spite	of	the	light	brown	dustcoat	and	leather-leggings	which	he	wore	in
deference	to	his	rustic	surroundings,	I	had	no	difficulty	in	recognizing	Lestrade,	of
Scotland	Yard.	With	him	we	drove	to	the	Hereford	Arms	where	a	room	had	already	been
engaged	for	us.
“I	have	ordered	a	carriage,”	said	Lestrade	as	we	sat	over	a	cup	of	tea.	“I	knew	your
energetic	nature,	and	that	you	would	not	be	happy	until	you	had	been	on	the	scene	of	the
crime.”
“It	was	very	nice	and	complimentary	of	you,”	Holmes	answered.	“It	is	entirely	a	question
of	barometric	pressure.”
Lestrade	looked	startled.	“I	do	not	quite	follow,”	he	said.
“How	is	the	glass?	Twenty-nine,	I	see.	No	wind,	and	not	a	cloud	in	the	sky.	I	have	a
caseful	of	cigarettes	here	which	need	smoking,	and	the	sofa	is	very	much	superior	to	the
usual	country	hotel	abomination.	I	do	not	think	that	it	is	probable	that	I	shall	use	the
carriage	to-night.”
Lestrade	laughed	indulgently.	“You	have,	no	doubt,	already	formed	your	conclusions	from
the	newspapers,”	he	said.	“The	case	is	as	plain	as	a	pikestaff,	and	the	more	one	goes	into	it
the	plainer	it	becomes.	Still,	of	course,	one	can’t	refuse	a	lady,	and	such	a	very	positive
one,	too.	She	has	heard	of	you,	and	would	have	your	opinion,	though	I	repeatedly	told	her
that	there	was	nothing	which	you	could	do	which	I	had	not	already	done.	Why,	bless	my
soul!	here	is	her	carriage	at	the	door.”
He	had	hardly	spoken	before	there	rushed	into	the	room	one	of	the	most	lovely	young
women	that	I	have	ever	seen	in	my	life.	Her	violet	eyes	shining,	her	lips	parted,	a	pink
flush	upon	her	cheeks,	all	thought	of	her	natural	reserve	lost	in	her	overpowering
excitement	and	concern.
“Oh,	Mr.	Sherlock	Holmes!”	she	cried,	glancing	from	one	to	the	other	of	us,	and	finally,
with	a	woman’s	quick	intuition,	fastening	upon	my	companion,	“I	am	so	glad	that	you
have	come.	I	have	driven	down	to	tell	you	so.	I	know	that	James	didn’t	do	it.	I	know	it,
and	I	want	you	to	start	upon	your	work	knowing	it,	too.	Never	let	yourself	doubt	upon	that
point.	We	have	known	each	other	since	we	were	little	children,	and	I	know	his	faults	as	no
one	else	does;	but	he	is	too	tenderhearted	to	hurt	a	fly.	Such	a	charge	is	absurd	to	anyone
who	really	knows	him.”
“I	hope	we	may	clear	him,	**miss**	Turner,”	said	Sherlock	Holmes.	“You	may	rely	upon	my
doing	all	that	I	can.”
“But	you	have	read	the	evidence.	You	have	formed	some	conclusion?	Do	you	not	see
some	loophole,	some	flaw?	Do	you	not	yourself	think	that	he	is	innocent?”
“I	think	that	it	is	very	probable.”
“There,	now!”	she	cried,	throwing	back	her	head	and	looking	defiantly	at	Lestrade.	“You
hear!	He	gives	me	hopes.”
Lestrade	shrugged	his	shoulders.	“I	am	afraid	that	my	colleague	has	been	a	little	quick	in
forming	his	conclusions,”	he	said.
Page 54, Paragraph 1: “But	he	is	right.	Oh!	I	know	that	he	is	right.	James	never	did	it.	And	about	his	quarrel	with
his	father,	I	am	sure	that	the	reason	why	he	would	not	speak	about	it	to	the	coroner	was
because	I	was	concerned	in	it.”
“In	what	way?”	asked	Holmes.
“It	is	no	time	for	me	to	hide	anything.	James	and	his	father	had	many	disagreements	about
me.	Mr.	McCarthy	was	very	anxious	that	there	should	be	a	marriage	between	us.	James
and	I	have	always	loved	each	other	as	brother	and	sister;	but	of	course	he	is	young	and	has
seen	very	little	of	life	yet,	and—and—well,	he	naturally	did	not	wish	to	do	anything	like
that	yet.	So	there	were	quarrels,	and	this,	I	am	sure,	was	one	of	them.”
“And	your	father?”	asked	Holmes.	“Was	he	in	favor	of	such	a	union?”
“No,	he	was	averse	to	it	also.	No	one	but	Mr.	McCarthy	was	in	favor	of	it.”	A	quick	blush
passed	over	her	fresh	young	face	as	Holmes	shot	one	of	his	keen,	questioning	glances	at
her.
“Thank	you	for	this	information,”	said	he.	“May	I	see	your	father	if	I	call	to-morrow?”
“I	am	afraid	the	doctor	won’t	allow	it.”
“The	doctor?”
“Yes,	have	you	not	heard?	Poor	father	has	never	been	strong	for	years	back,	but	this	has
broken	him	down	completely.	He	has	taken	to	his	bed,	and	Dr.	Willows	says	that	he	is	a
wreck	and	that	his	nervous	system	is	shattered.	Mr.	McCarthy	was	the	only	man	alive	who
had	known	dad	in	the	old	days	in	Victoria.”
“Ha!	In	Victoria!	That	is	important.”
“Yes,	at	the	mines.”
“Quite	so;	at	the	gold-mines,	where,	as	I	understand,	Mr.	Turner	made	his	money.”
“Yes,	certainly.”
“Thank	you,	**miss**	Turner.	You	have	been	of	material	assistance	to	me.”
“You	will	tell	me	if	you	have	any	news	to-morrow.	No	doubt	you	will	go	to	the	prison	to
see	James.	Oh,	if	you	do,	Mr.	Holmes,	do	tell	him	that	I	know	him	to	be	innocent.”
“I	will,	**miss**	Turner.”
“I	must	go	home	now,	for	dad	is	very	ill,	and	he	misses	me	so	if	I	leave	him.	Good-bye,
and	God	help	you	in	your	undertaking.”	She	hurried	from	the	room	as	impulsively	as	she
had	entered,	and	we	heard	the	wheels	of	her	carriage	rattle	off	down	the	street.
“I	am	ashamed	of	you,	Holmes,”	said	Lestrade	with	dignity	after	a	few	minutes’	silence.
“Why	should	you	raise	up	hopes	which	you	are	bound	to	disappoint?	I	am	not	over-tender
of	heart,	but	I	call	it	cruel.”
“I	think	that	I	see	my	way	to	clearing	James	McCarthy,”	said	Holmes.	“Have	you	an	order
to	see	him	in	prison?”
“Yes,	but	only	for	you	and	me.”
Page 56, Paragraph 1: “None	at	all.	I	was	inclined	to	think	at	one	time	that	he	knew	who	had	done	it	and	was
screening	him	or	her,	but	I	am	convinced	now	that	he	is	as	puzzled	as	everyone	else.	He	is
not	a	very	quick-witted	youth,	though	comely	to	look	at	and,	I	should	think,	sound	at
heart.”
“I	cannot	admire	his	taste,”	I	remarked,	“if	it	is	indeed	a	fact	that	he	was	averse	to	a
marriage	with	so	charming	a	young	lady	as	this	**miss**	Turner.”
“Ah,	thereby	hangs	a	rather	painful	tale.	This	fellow	is	madly,	insanely,	in	love	with	her,
but	some	two	years	ago,	when	he	was	only	a	lad,	and	before	he	really	knew	her,	for	she
had	been	away	five	years	at	a	boarding-school,	what	does	the	idiot	do	but	get	into	the
clutches	of	a	barmaid	in	Bristol	and	marry	her	at	a	registry	office?	No	one	knows	a	word
of	the	matter,	but	you	can	imagine	how	maddening	it	must	be	to	him	to	be	upbraided	for
not	doing	what	he	would	give	his	very	eyes	to	do,	but	what	he	knows	to	be	absolutely
impossible.	It	was	sheer	frenzy	of	this	sort	which	made	him	throw	his	hands	up	into	the	air
when	his	father,	at	their	last	interview,	was	goading	him	on	to	propose	to	**miss**	Turner.	On
the	other	hand,	he	had	no	means	of	supporting	himself,	and	his	father,	who	was	by	all
accounts	a	very	hard	man,	would	have	thrown	him	over	utterly	had	he	known	the	truth.	It
was	with	his	barmaid	wife	that	he	had	spent	the	last	three	days	in	Bristol,	and	his	father
did	not	know	where	he	was.	Mark	that	point.	It	is	of	importance.	Good	has	come	out	of
evil,	however,	for	the	barmaid,	finding	from	the	papers	that	he	is	in	serious	trouble	and
likely	to	be	hanged,	has	thrown	him	over	utterly	and	has	written	to	him	to	say	that	she	has
a	husband	already	in	the	Bermuda	Dockyard,	so	that	there	is	really	no	tie	between	them.	I
think	that	that	bit	of	news	has	consoled	young	McCarthy	for	all	that	he	has	suffered.”
“But	if	he	is	innocent,	who	has	done	it?”
“Ah!	who?	I	would	call	your	attention	very	particularly	to	two	points.	One	is	that	the
murdered	man	had	an	appointment	with	someone	at	the	pool,	and	that	the	someone	could
not	have	been	his	son,	for	his	son	was	away,	and	he	did	not	know	when	he	would	return.
The	second	is	that	the	murdered	man	was	heard	to	cry	‘Cooee!’	before	he	knew	that	his
son	had	returned.	Those	are	the	crucial	points	upon	which	the	case	depends.	And	now	let
us	talk	about	George	Meredith,	if	you	please,	and	we	shall	leave	all	minor	matters	until	to-
morrow.”
There	was	no	rain,	as	Holmes	had	foretold,	and	the	morning	broke	bright	and	cloudless.
At	nine	o’clock	Lestrade	called	for	us	with	the	carriage,	and	we	set	off	for	Hatherley	Farm
and	the	Boscombe	Pool.
“There	is	serious	news	this	morning,”	Lestrade	observed.	“It	is	said	that	Mr.	Turner,	of	the
Hall,	is	so	ill	that	his	life	is	despaired	of.”
“An	elderly	man,	I	presume?”	said	Holmes.
“About	sixty;	but	his	constitution	has	been	shattered	by	his	life	abroad,	and	he	has	been	in
failing	health	for	some	time.	This	business	has	had	a	very	bad	effect	upon	him.	He	was	an
old	friend	of	McCarthy’s,	and,	I	may	add,	a	great	benefactor	to	him,	for	I	have	learned	that
he	gave	him	Hatherley	Farm	rent	free.”
“Indeed!	That	is	interesting,”	said	Holmes.
“Oh,	yes!	In	a	hundred	other	ways	he	has	helped	him.	Everybody	about	here	speaks	of	his
Page 95, Paragraph 1: swarm	of	humanity,	every	possible	combination	of	events	may	be	expected	to	take	place,
and	many	a	little	problem	will	be	presented	which	may	be	striking	and	bizarre	without
being	criminal.	We	have	already	had	experience	of	such.”
“So	much	so,”	l	remarked,	“that	of	the	last	six	cases	which	I	have	added	to	my	notes,	three
have	been	entirely	free	of	any	legal	crime.”
“Precisely.	You	allude	to	my	attempt	to	recover	the	Irene	Adler	papers,	to	the	singular	case
of	**miss**	Mary	Sutherland,	and	to	the	adventure	of	the	man	with	the	twisted	lip.	Well,	I
have	no	doubt	that	this	small	matter	will	fall	into	the	same	innocent	category.	You	know
Peterson,	the	commissionaire?”
“Yes.”
“It	is	to	him	that	this	trophy	belongs.”
“It	is	his	hat.”
“No,	no,	he	found	it.	Its	owner	is	unknown.	I	beg	that	you	will	look	upon	it	not	as	a
battered	billycock	but	as	an	intellectual	problem.	And,	first,	as	to	how	it	came	here.	It
arrived	upon	Christmas	morning,	in	company	with	a	good	fat	goose,	which	is,	I	have	no
doubt,	roasting	at	this	moment	in	front	of	Peterson’s	fire.	The	facts	are	these:	about	four
o’clock	on	Christmas	morning,	Peterson,	who,	as	you	know,	is	a	very	honest	fellow,	was
returning	from	some	small	jollification	and	was	making	his	way	homeward	down
Tottenham	Court	Road.	In	front	of	him	he	saw,	in	the	gaslight,	a	tallish	man,	walking	with
a	slight	stagger,	and	carrying	a	white	goose	slung	over	his	shoulder.	As	he	reached	the
corner	of	Goodge	Street,	a	row	broke	out	between	this	stranger	and	a	little	knot	of	roughs.
One	of	the	latter	knocked	off	the	man’s	hat,	on	which	he	raised	his	stick	to	defend	himself
and,	swinging	it	over	his	head,	smashed	the	shop	window	behind	him.	Peterson	had	rushed
forward	to	protect	the	stranger	from	his	assailants;	but	the	man,	shocked	at	having	broken
the	window,	and	seeing	an	official-looking	person	in	uniform	rushing	towards	him,
dropped	his	goose,	took	to	his	heels,	and	vanished	amid	the	labyrinth	of	small	streets
which	lie	at	the	back	of	Tottenham	Court	Road.	The	roughs	had	also	fled	at	the	appearance
of	Peterson,	so	that	he	was	left	in	possession	of	the	field	of	battle,	and	also	of	the	spoils	of
victory	in	the	shape	of	this	battered	hat	and	a	most	unimpeachable	Christmas	goose.”
“Which	surely	he	restored	to	their	owner?”
“My	dear	fellow,	there	lies	the	problem.	It	is	true	that	‘For	Mrs.	Henry	Baker’	was	printed
upon	a	small	card	which	was	tied	to	the	bird’s	left	leg,	and	it	is	also	true	that	the	initials
‘H.	B.’	are	legible	upon	the	lining	of	this	hat,	but	as	there	are	some	thousands	of	Bakers,
and	some	hundreds	of	Henry	Bakers	in	this	city	of	ours,	it	is	not	easy	to	restore	lost
property	to	any	one	of	them.”
“What,	then,	did	Peterson	do?”
“He	brought	round	both	hat	and	goose	to	me	on	Christmas	morning,	knowing	that	even
the	smallest	problems	are	of	interest	to	me.	The	goose	we	retained	until	this	morning,
when	there	were	signs	that,	in	spite	of	the	slight	frost,	it	would	be	well	that	it	should	be
eaten	without	unnecessary	delay.	Its	finder	has	carried	it	off,	therefore,	to	fulfil	the
ultimate	destiny	of	a	goose,	while	I	continue	to	retain	the	hat	of	the	unknown	gentleman
who	lost	his	Christmas	dinner.”
Page 110, Paragraph 1: “My	dear	fellow,	I	would	not	**miss**	it	for	anything.”
I	had	no	keener	pleasure	than	in	following	Holmes	in	his	professional	investigations,	and
in	admiring	the	rapid	deductions,	as	swift	as	intuitions,	and	yet	always	founded	on	a
logical	basis	with	which	he	unravelled	the	problems	which	were	submitted	to	him.	I
rapidly	threw	on	my	clothes	and	was	ready	in	a	few	minutes	to	accompany	my	friend
down	to	the	sitting-room.	A	lady	dressed	in	black	and	heavily	veiled,	who	had	been	sitting
in	the	window,	rose	as	we	entered.
“Good-morning,	madam,”	said	Holmes	cheerily.	“My	name	is	Sherlock	Holmes.	This	is
my	intimate	friend	and	associate,	Dr.	Watson,	before	whom	you	can	speak	as	freely	as
before	myself.	Ha!	I	am	glad	to	see	that	Mrs.	Hudson	has	had	the	good	sense	to	light	the
fire.	Pray	draw	up	to	it,	and	I	shall	order	you	a	cup	of	hot	coffee,	for	I	observe	that	you	are
shivering.”
“It	is	not	cold	which	makes	me	shiver,”	said	the	woman	in	a	low	voice,	changing	her	seat
as	requested.
“What,	then?”
“It	is	fear,	Mr.	Holmes.	It	is	terror.”	She	raised	her	veil	as	she	spoke,	and	we	could	see	that
she	was	indeed	in	a	pitiable	state	of	agitation,	her	face	all	drawn	and	gray,	with	restless
frightened	eyes,	like	those	of	some	hunted	animal.	Her	features	and	figure	were	those	of	a
woman	of	thirty,	but	her	hair	was	shot	with	premature	gray,	and	her	expression	was	weary
and	haggard.	Sherlock	Holmes	ran	her	over	with	one	of	his	quick,	all-comprehensive
glances.
“You	must	not	fear,”	said	he	soothingly,	bending	forward	and	patting	her	forearm.	“We
shall	soon	set	matters	right,	I	have	no	doubt.	You	have	come	in	by	train	this	morning,	I
see.”
“You	know	me,	then?”
“No,	but	I	observe	the	second	half	of	a	return	ticket	in	the	palm	of	your	left	glove.	You
must	have	started	early,	and	yet	you	had	a	good	drive	in	a	dog-cart,	along	heavy	roads,
before	you	reached	the	station.”
The	lady	gave	a	violent	start	and	stared	in	bewilderment	at	my	companion.
“There	is	no	mystery,	my	dear	madam,”	said	he,	smiling.	“The	left	arm	of	your	jacket	is
spattered	with	mud	in	no	less	than	seven	places.	The	marks	are	perfectly	fresh.	There	is	no
vehicle	save	a	dog-cart	which	throws	up	mud	in	that	way,	and	then	only	when	you	sit	on
the	left-hand	side	of	the	driver.”
“Whatever	your	reasons	may	be,	you	are	perfectly	correct,”	said	she.	“I	started	from	home
before	six,	reached	Leatherhead	at	twenty	past,	and	came	in	by	the	first	train	to	Waterloo.
Sir,	I	can	stand	this	strain	no	longer;	I	shall	go	mad	if	it	continues.	I	have	no	one	to	turn	to
—none,	save	only	one,	who	cares	for	me,	and	he,	poor	fellow,	can	be	of	little	aid.	I	have
heard	of	you,	Mr.	Holmes;	I	have	heard	of	you	from	Mrs.	Farintosh,	whom	you	helped	in
the	hour	of	her	sore	need.	It	was	from	her	that	I	had	your	address.	Oh,	sir,	do	you	not	think
that	you	could	help	me,	too,	and	at	least	throw	a	little	light	through	the	dense	darkness
which	surrounds	me?	At	present	it	is	out	of	my	power	to	reward	you	for	your	services,	but
Page 112, Paragraph 1: with	him	in	the	old	ancestral	house	at	Stoke	Moran.	The	money	which	my	mother	had	left
was	enough	for	all	our	wants,	and	there	seemed	to	be	no	obstacle	to	our	happiness.
“But	a	terrible	change	came	over	our	stepfather	about	this	time.	Instead	of	making	friends
and	exchanging	visits	with	our	neighbors,	who	had	at	first	been	overjoyed	to	see	a	Roylott
of	Stoke	Moran	back	in	the	old	family	seat,	he	shut	himself	up	in	his	house	and	seldom
came	out	save	to	indulge	in	ferocious	quarrels	with	whoever	might	cross	his	path.
Violence	of	temper	approaching	to	mania	has	been	hereditary	in	the	men	of	the	family,	and
in	my	stepfather’s	case	it	had,	I	believe,	been	intensified	by	his	long	residence	in	the
tropics.	A	series	of	disgraceful	brawls	took	place,	two	of	which	ended	in	the	police-court,
until	at	last	he	became	the	terror	of	the	village,	and	the	folks	would	fly	at	his	approach,	for
he	is	a	man	of	immense	strength,	and	absolutely	uncontrollable	in	his	anger.
“Last	week	he	hurled	the	local	blacksmith	over	a	parapet	into	a	stream,	and	it	was	only	by
paying	over	all	the	money	which	I	could	gather	together	that	I	was	able	to	avert	another
public	exposure.	He	had	no	friends	at	all	save	the	wandering	gypsies,	and	he	would	give
these	vagabonds	leave	to	encamp	upon	the	few	acres	of	bramble-covered	land	which
represent	the	family	estate,	and	would	accept	in	return	the	hospitality	of	their	tents,
wandering	away	with	them	sometimes	for	weeks	on	end.	He	has	a	passion	also	for	Indian
animals,	which	are	sent	over	to	him	by	a	correspondent,	and	he	has	at	this	moment	a
cheetah	and	a	baboon,	which	wander	freely	over	his	grounds	and	are	feared	by	the
villagers	almost	as	much	as	their	master.
“You	can	imagine	from	what	I	say	that	my	poor	sister	Julia	and	I	had	no	great	pleasure	in
our	lives.	No	servant	would	stay	with	us,	and	for	a	long	time	we	did	all	the	work	of	the
house.	She	was	but	thirty	at	the	time	of	her	death,	and	yet	her	hair	had	already	begun	to
whiten,	even	as	mine	has.”
“Your	sister	is	dead,	then?”
“She	died	just	two	years	ago,	and	it	is	of	her	death	that	I	wish	to	speak	to	you.	You	can
understand	that,	living	the	life	which	I	have	described,	we	were	little	likely	to	see	anyone
of	our	own	age	and	position.	We	had,	however,	an	aunt,	my	mother’s	maiden	sister,	**miss**
Honoria	Westphail,	who	lives	near	Harrow,	and	we	were	occasionally	allowed	to	pay	short
visits	at	this	lady’s	house.	Julia	went	there	at	Christmas	two	years	ago,	and	met	there	a
half-pay	major	of	marines,	to	whom	she	became	engaged.	My	stepfather	learned	of	the
engagement	when	my	sister	returned	and	offered	no	objection	to	the	marriage;	but	within	a
fortnight	of	the	day	which	had	been	fixed	for	the	wedding,	the	terrible	event	occurred
which	has	deprived	me	of	my	only	companion.”
Sherlock	Holmes	had	been	leaning	back	in	his	chair	with	his	eyes	closed	and	his	head
sunk	in	a	cushion,	but	he	half	opened	his	lids	now	and	glanced	across	at	his	visitor.
“Pray	be	precise	as	to	details,”	said	he.
“It	is	easy	for	me	to	be	so,	for	every	event	of	that	dreadful	time	is	seared	into	my	memory.
The	manor-house	is,	as	I	have	already	said,	very	old,	and	only	one	wing	is	now	inhabited.
The	bedrooms	in	this	wing	are	on	the	ground	floor,	the	sitting-rooms	being	in	the	central
block	of	the	buildings.	Of	these	bedrooms	the	first	is	Dr.	Roylott’s,	the	second	my	sister’s,
and	the	third	my	own.	There	is	no	communication	between	them,	but	they	all	open	out
into	the	same	corridor.	Do	I	make	myself	plain?”
Page 115, Paragraph 1: heads	might	have	suggested	the	strange	adjective	which	she	used.”
Holmes	shook	his	head	like	a	man	who	is	far	from	being	satisfied.
“These	are	very	deep	waters,”	said	he;	“pray	go	on	with	your	narrative.”
“Two	years	have	passed	since	then,	and	my	life	has	been	until	lately	lonelier	than	ever.	A
month	ago,	however,	a	dear	friend,	whom	I	have	known	for	many	years,	has	done	me	the
honor	to	ask	my	hand	in	marriage.	His	name	is	Armitage—Percy	Armitage—the	second
son	of	Mr.	Armitage,	of	Crane	Water,	near	Reading.	My	stepfather	has	offered	no
opposition	to	the	match,	and	we	are	to	be	married	in	the	course	of	the	spring.	Two	days
ago	some	repairs	were	started	in	the	west	wing	of	the	building,	and	my	bedroom	wall	has
been	pierced,	so	that	I	have	had	to	move	into	the	chamber	in	which	my	sister	died,	and	to
sleep	in	the	very	bed	in	which	she	slept.	Imagine,	then,	my	thrill	of	terror	when	last	night,
as	I	lay	awake,	thinking	over	her	terrible	fate,	I	suddenly	heard	in	the	silence	of	the	night
the	low	whistle	which	had	been	the	herald	of	her	own	death.	I	sprang	up	and	lit	the	lamp,
but	nothing	was	to	be	seen	in	the	room.	I	was	too	shaken	to	go	to	bed	again,	however,	so	I
dressed,	and	as	soon	as	it	was	daylight	I	slipped	down,	got	a	dog-cart	at	the	Crown	Inn,
which	is	opposite,	and	drove	to	Leatherhead,	from	whence	I	have	come	on	this	morning
with	the	one	object	of	seeing	you	and	asking	your	advice.”
“You	have	done	wisely,”	said	my	friend.	“But	have	you	told	me	all?”
“Yes,	all.”
“**miss**	Roylott,	you	have	not.	You	are	screening	your	stepfather.”
“Why,	what	do	you	mean?”
For	answer	Holmes	pushed	back	the	frill	of	black	lace	which	fringed	the	hand	that	lay
upon	our	visitor’s	knee.	Five	little	livid	spots,	the	marks	of	four	fingers	and	a	thumb,	were
printed	upon	the	white	wrist.
“You	have	been	cruelly	used,”	said	Holmes.
The	lady	colored	deeply	and	covered	over	her	injured	wrist.	“He	is	a	hard	man,”	she	said,
“and	perhaps	he	hardly	knows	his	own	strength.”
There	was	a	long	silence,	during	which	Holmes	leaned	his	chin	upon	his	hands	and	stared
into	the	crackling	fire.
“This	is	a	very	deep	business,”	he	said	at	last.	“There	are	a	thousand	details	which	I	should
desire	to	know	before	I	decide	upon	our	course	of	action.	Yet	we	have	not	a	moment	to
lose.	If	we	were	to	come	to	Stoke	Moran	to-day,	would	it	be	possible	for	us	to	see	over
these	rooms	without	the	knowledge	of	your	stepfather?”
“As	it	happens,	he	spoke	of	coming	into	town	to-day	upon	some	most	important	business.
It	is	probable	that	he	will	be	away	all	day,	and	that	there	would	be	nothing	to	disturb	you.
We	have	a	housekeeper	now,	but	she	is	old	and	foolish,	and	I	could	easily	get	her	out	of
the	way.”
“Excellent.	You	are	not	averse	to	this	trip,	Watson?”
“By	no	means.”
Page 116, Paragraph 1: “Then	we	shall	both	come.	What	are	you	going	to	do	yourself?”
“I	have	one	or	two	things	which	I	would	wish	to	do	now	that	I	am	in	town.	But	I	shall
return	by	the	twelve	o’clock	train,	so	as	to	be	there	in	time	for	your	coming.”
“And	you	may	expect	us	early	in	the	afternoon.	I	have	myself	some	small	business	matters
to	attend	to.	Will	you	not	wait	and	breakfast?”
“No,	I	must	go.	My	heart	is	lightened	already	since	I	have	confided	my	trouble	to	you.	I
shall	look	forward	to	seeing	you	again	this	afternoon.”	She	dropped	her	thick	black	veil
over	her	face	and	glided	from	the	room.
“And	what	do	you	think	of	it	all,	Watson?”	asked	Sherlock	Holmes,	leaning	back	in	his
chair.
“It	seems	to	me	to	be	a	most	dark	and	sinister	business.”
“Dark	enough	and	sinister	enough.”
“Yet	if	the	lady	is	correct	in	saying	that	the	flooring	and	walls	are	sound,	and	that	the	door,
window,	and	chimney	are	impassable,	then	her	sister	must	have	been	undoubtedly	alone
when	she	met	her	mysterious	end.”
“What	becomes,	then,	of	these	nocturnal	whistles,	and	what	of	the	very	peculiar	words	of
the	dying	woman?”
“I	cannot	think.”
“When	you	combine	the	ideas	of	whistles	at	night,	the	presence	of	a	band	of	gypsies	who
are	on	intimate	terms	with	this	old	doctor,	the	fact	that	we	have	every	reason	to	believe
that	the	doctor	has	an	interest	in	preventing	his	stepdaughter’s	marriage,	the	dying	allusion
to	a	band,	and,	finally,	the	fact	that	**miss**	Helen	Stoner	heard	a	metallic	clang,	which	might
have	been	caused	by	one	of	those	metal	bars	that	secured	the	shutters	falling	back	into	its
place,	I	think	that	there	is	good	ground	to	think	that	the	mystery	may	be	cleared	along
those	lines.”
“But	what,	then,	did	the	gypsies	do?”
“I	cannot	imagine.”
“I	see	many	objections	to	any	such	theory.”
“And	so	do	I.	It	is	precisely	for	that	reason	that	we	are	going	to	Stoke	Moran	this	day.	I
want	to	see	whether	the	objections	are	fatal,	or	if	they	may	be	explained	away.	But	what	in
the	name	of	the	devil!”
The	ejaculation	had	been	drawn	from	my	companion	by	the	fact	that	our	door	had	been
suddenly	dashed	open,	and	that	a	huge	man	had	framed	himself	in	the	aperture.	His
costume	was	a	peculiar	mixture	of	the	professional	and	of	the	agricultural,	having	a	black
top-hat,	a	long	frock-coat,	and	a	pair	of	high	gaiters,	with	a	hunting-crop	swinging	in	his
hand.	So	tall	was	he	that	his	hat	actually	brushed	the	cross	bar	of	the	doorway,	and	his
breadth	seemed	to	span	it	across	from	side	to	side.	A	large	face,	seared	with	a	thousand
wrinkles,	burned	yellow	with	the	sun,	and	marked	with	every	evil	passion,	was	turned
from	one	to	the	other	of	us,	while	his	deep-set,	bile-shot	eyes,	and	his	high,	thin,	fleshless
nose,	gave	him	somewhat	the	resemblance	to	a	fierce	old	bird	of	prey.
Page 117, Paragraph 1: “Which	of	you	is	Holmes?”	asked	this	apparition.
“My	name,	sir;	but	you	have	the	advantage	of	me,”	said	my	companion	quietly.
“I	am	Dr.	Grimesby	Roylott,	of	Stoke	Moran.”
“Indeed,	Doctor,”	said	Holmes	blandly.	“Pray	take	a	seat.”
“I	will	do	nothing	of	the	kind.	My	stepdaughter	has	been	here.	I	have	traced	her.	What	has
she	been	saying	to	you?”
“It	is	a	little	cold	for	the	time	of	the	year,”	said	Holmes.
“What	has	she	been	saying	to	you?”	screamed	the	old	man	furiously.
“But	I	have	heard	that	the	crocuses	promise	well,”	continued	my	companion
imperturbably.
“Ha!	You	put	me	off,	do	you?”	said	our	new	visitor,	taking	a	step	forward	and	shaking	his
hunting-crop.	“I	know	you,	you	scoundrel!	I	have	heard	of	you	before.	You	are	Holmes,
the	meddler.”
My	friend	smiled.
“Holmes,	the	busybody!”
His	smile	broadened.
“Holmes,	the	Scotland	Yard	Jack-in-office!”
Holmes	chuckled	heartily.	“Your	conversation	is	most	entertaining,”	said	he.	“When	you
go	out	close	the	door,	for	there	is	a	decided	draught.”
“I	will	go	when	I	have	said	my	say.	Don’t	you	dare	to	meddle	with	my	affairs.	I	know	that
**miss**	Stoner	has	been	here.	I	traced	her!	I	am	a	dangerous	man	to	fall	foul	of!	See	here.”
He	stepped	swiftly	forward,	seized	the	poker,	and	bent	it	into	a	curve	with	his	huge	brown
hands.
“See	that	you	keep	yourself	out	of	my	grip,”	he	snarled,	and	hurling	the	twisted	poker	into
the	fireplace	he	strode	out	of	the	room.
“He	seems	a	very	amiable	person,”	said	Holmes,	laughing.	“I	am	not	quite	so	bulky,	but	if
he	had	remained	I	might	have	shown	him	that	my	grip	was	not	much	more	feeble	than	his
own.”	As	he	spoke	he	picked	up	the	steel	poker	and,	with	a	sudden	effort,	straightened	it
out	again.
“Fancy	his	having	the	insolence	to	confound	me	with	the	official	detective	force!	This
incident	gives	zest	to	our	investigation,	however,	and	I	only	trust	that	our	little	friend	will
not	suffer	from	her	imprudence	in	allowing	this	brute	to	trace	her.	And	now,	Watson,	we
shall	order	breakfast,	and	afterwards	I	shall	walk	down	to	Doctors’	Commons,	where	I
hope	to	get	some	data	which	may	help	us	in	this	matter.”
It	was	nearly	one	o’clock	when	Sherlock	Holmes	returned	from	his	excursion.	He	held	in
his	hand	a	sheet	of	blue	paper,	scrawled	over	with	notes	and	figures.
“I	have	seen	the	will	of	the	deceased	wife,”	said	he.	“To	determine	its	exact	meaning	I
have	been	obliged	to	work	out	the	present	prices	of	the	investments	with	which	it	is
Page 118, Paragraph 1: concerned.	The	total	income,	which	at	the	time	of	the	wife’s	death	was	little	short	of	1100
pounds,	is	now,	through	the	fall	in	agricultural	prices,	not	more	than	750	pounds.	Each
daughter	can	claim	an	income	of	250	pounds,	in	case	of	marriage.	It	is	evident,	therefore,
that	if	both	girls	had	married,	this	beauty	would	have	had	a	mere	pittance,	while	even	one
of	them	would	cripple	him	to	a	very	serious	extent.	My	morning’s	work	has	not	been
wasted,	since	it	has	proved	that	he	has	the	very	strongest	motives	for	standing	in	the	way
of	anything	of	the	sort.	And	now,	Watson,	this	is	too	serious	for	dawdling,	especially	as
the	old	man	is	aware	that	we	are	interesting	ourselves	in	his	affairs;	so	if	you	are	ready,	we
shall	call	a	cab	and	drive	to	Waterloo.	I	should	be	very	much	obliged	if	you	would	slip
your	revolver	into	your	pocket.	An	Eley’s	No.	2	is	an	excellent	argument	with	gentlemen
who	can	twist	steel	pokers	into	knots.	That	and	a	tooth-brush	are,	I	think,	all	that	we
need.”
At	Waterloo	we	were	fortunate	in	catching	a	train	for	Leatherhead,	where	we	hired	a	trap
at	the	station	inn	and	drove	for	four	or	five	miles	through	the	lovely	Surrey	laries.	It	was	a
perfect	day,	with	a	bright	sun	and	a	few	fleecy	clouds	in	the	heavens.	The	trees	and
wayside	hedges	were	just	throwing	out	their	first	green	shoots,	and	the	air	was	full	of	the
pleasant	smell	of	the	moist	earth.	To	me	at	least	there	was	a	strange	contrast	between	the
sweet	promise	of	the	spring	and	this	sinister	quest	upon	which	we	were	engaged.	My
companion	sat	in	the	front	of	the	trap,	his	arms	folded,	his	hat	pulled	down	over	his	eyes,
and	his	chin	sunk	upon	his	breast,	buried	in	the	deepest	thought.	Suddenly,	however,	he
started,	tapped	me	on	the	shoulder,	and	pointed	over	the	meadows
“Look	there!”	said	he.
A	heavily	timbered	park	stretched	up	in	a	gentle	slope,	thickening	into	a	grove	at	the
highest	point.	From	amid	the	branches	there	jutted	out	the	gray	gables	and	high	roof-tree
of	a	very	old	mansion.
“Stoke	Moran?”	said	he.
“Yes,	sir,	that	be	the	house	of	Dr.	Grimesby	Roylott,”	remarked	the	driver.
“There	is	some	building	going	on	there,”	said	Holmes;	“that	is	where	we	are	going.”
“There’s	the	village,”	said	the	driver,	pointing	to	a	cluster	of	roofs	some	distance	to	the
left;	“but	if	you	want	to	get	to	the	house,	you’ll	find	it	shorter	to	get	over	this	stile,	and	so
by	the	foot-path	over	the	fields.	There	it	is,	where	the	lady	is	walking.”
“And	the	lady,	I	fancy,	is	**miss**	Stoner,”	observed	Holmes,	shading	his	eyes.	“Yes,	I	think
we	had	better	do	as	you	suggest.”
We	got	off,	paid	our	fare,	and	the	trap	rattled	back	on	its	way	to	Leatherhead.
“I	thought	it	as	well,”	said	Holmes	as	we	climbed	the	stile,	“that	this	fellow	should	think
we	had	come	here	as	architects,	or	on	some	definite	business.	It	may	stop	his	gossip.
Good-afternoon,	**miss**	Stoner.	You	see	that	we	have	been	as	good	as	our	word.”
Our	client	of	the	morning	had	hurried	forward	to	meet	us	with	a	face	which	spoke	her	joy.
“I	have	been	waiting	so	eagerly	for	you,”	she	cried,	shaking	hands	with	us	warmly.	“All
has	turned	out	splendidly.	Dr.	Roylott	has	gone	to	town,	and	it	is	unlikely	that	he	will	be
back	before	evening.”
Page 119, Paragraph 1: “We	have	had	the	pleasure	of	making	the	doctor’s	acquaintance,”	said	Holmes,	and	in	a
few	words	he	sketched	out	what	had	occurred.	**miss**	Stoner	turned	white	to	the	lips	as	she
listened.
“Good	heavens!”	she	cried,	“he	has	followed	me,	then.”
“So	it	appears.”
“He	is	so	cunning	that	I	never	know	when	I	am	safe	from	him.	What	will	he	say	when	he
returns?”
“He	must	guard	himself,	for	he	may	find	that	there	is	someone	more	cunning	than	himself
upon	his	track.	You	must	lock	yourself	up	from	him	to-night.	If	he	is	violent,	we	shall	take
you	away	to	your	aunt’s	at	Harrow.	Now,	we	must	make	the	best	use	of	our	time,	so	kindly
take	us	at	once	to	the	rooms	which	we	are	to	examine.”
The	building	was	of	gray,	lichen-blotched	stone,	with	a	high	central	portion	and	two
curving	wings,	like	the	claws	of	a	crab,	thrown	out	on	each	side.	In	one	of	these	wings	the
windows	were	broken	and	blocked	with	wooden	boards,	while	the	roof	was	partly	caved
in,	a	picture	of	ruin.	The	central	portion	was	in	little	better	repair,	but	the	right-hand	block
was	comparatively	modern,	and	the	blinds	in	the	windows,	with	the	blue	smoke	curling	up
from	the	chimneys,	showed	that	this	was	where	the	family	resided.	Some	scaffolding	had
been	erected	against	the	end	wall,	and	the	stone-work	had	been	broken	into,	but	there	were
no	signs	of	any	workmen	at	the	moment	of	our	visit.	Holmes	walked	slowly	up	and	down
the	ill-trimmed	lawn	and	examined	with	deep	attention	the	outsides	of	the	windows.
“This,	I	take	it,	belongs	to	the	room	in	which	you	used	to	sleep,	the	centre	one	to	your
sister’s,	and	the	one	next	to	the	main	building	to	Dr.	Roylott’s	chamber?”
“Exactly	so.	But	I	am	now	sleeping	in	the	middle	one.”
“Pending	the	alterations,	as	I	understand.	By	the	way,	there	does	not	seem	to	be	any	very
pressing	need	for	repairs	at	that	end	wall.”
“There	were	none.	I	believe	that	it	was	an	excuse	to	move	me	from	my	room.”
“Ah!	that	is	suggestive.	Now,	on	the	other	side	of	this	narrow	wing	runs	the	corridor	from
which	these	three	rooms	open.	There	are	windows	in	it,	of	course?”
“Yes,	but	very	small	ones.	Too	narrow	for	anyone	to	pass	through.”
“As	you	both	locked	your	doors	at	night,	your	rooms	were	unapproachable	from	that	side.
Now,	would	you	have	the	kindness	to	go	into	your	room	and	bar	your	shutters?”
**miss**	Stoner	did	so,	and	Holmes,	after	a	careful	examination	through	the	open	window,
endeavored	in	every	way	to	force	the	shutter	open,	but	without	success.	There	was	no	slit
through	which	a	knife	could	be	passed	to	raise	the	bar.	Then	with	his	lens	he	tested	the
hinges,	but	they	were	of	solid	iron,	built	firmly	into	the	massive	masonry.	“Hum!”	said	he,
scratching	his	chin	in	some	perplexity,	“my	theory	certainly	presents	some	difficulties.	No
one	could	pass	these	shutters	if	they	were	bolted.	Well,	we	shall	see	if	the	inside	throws
any	light	upon	the	matter.”
A	small	side	door	led	into	the	whitewashed	corridor	from	which	the	three	bedrooms
opened.	Holmes	refused	to	examine	the	third	chamber,	so	we	passed	at	once	to	the	second,
Page 120, Paragraph 1: that	in	which	**miss**	Stoner	was	now	sleeping,	and	in	which	her	sister	had	met	with	her	fate.
It	was	a	homely	little	room,	with	a	low	ceiling	and	a	gaping	fireplace,	after	the	fashion	of
old	country-houses.	A	brown	chest	of	drawers	stood	in	one	corner,	a	narrow	white-
counterpaned	bed	in	another,	and	a	dressing-table	on	the	left-hand	side	of	the	window.
These	articles,	with	two	small	wicker-work	chairs,	made	up	all	the	furniture	in	the	room
save	for	a	square	of	Wilton	carpet	in	the	centre.	The	boards	round	and	the	panelling	of	the
walls	were	of	brown,	worm-eaten	oak,	so	old	and	discolored	that	it	may	have	dated	from
the	original	building	of	the	house.	Holmes	drew	one	of	the	chairs	into	a	corner	and	sat
silent,	while	his	eyes	travelled	round	and	round	and	up	and	down,	taking	in	every	detail	of
the	apartment.
“Where	does	that	bell	communicate	with?”	he	asked	at	last	pointing	to	a	thick	belt-rope
which	hung	down	beside	the	bed,	the	tassel	actually	lying	upon	the	pillow.
“It	goes	to	the	housekeeper’s	room.”
“It	looks	newer	than	the	other	things?”
“Yes,	it	was	only	put	there	a	couple	of	years	ago.”
“Your	sister	asked	for	it,	I	suppose?”
“No,	I	never	heard	of	her	using	it.	We	used	always	to	get	what	we	wanted	for	ourselves.”
“Indeed,	it	seemed	unnecessary	to	put	so	nice	a	bell-pull	there.	You	will	excuse	me	for	a
few	minutes	while	I	satisfy	myself	as	to	this	floor.”	He	threw	himself	down	upon	his	face
with	his	lens	in	his	hand	and	crawled	swiftly	backward	and	forward,	examining	minutely
the	cracks	between	the	boards.	Then	he	did	the	same	with	the	wood-work	with	which	the
chamber	was	panelled.	Finally	he	walked	over	to	the	bed	and	spent	some	time	in	staring	at
it	and	in	running	his	eye	up	and	down	the	wall.	Finally	he	took	the	bell-rope	in	his	hand
and	gave	it	a	brisk	tug.
“Why,	it’s	a	dummy,”	said	he.
“Won’t	it	ring?”
“No,	it	is	not	even	attached	to	a	wire.	This	is	very	interesting.	You	can	see	now	that	it	is
fastened	to	a	hook	just	above	where	the	little	opening	for	the	ventilator	is.”
“How	very	absurd!	I	never	noticed	that	before.”
“Very	strange!”	muttered	Holmes,	pulling	at	the	rope.	“There	are	one	or	two	very	singular
points	about	this	room.	For	example,	what	a	fool	a	builder	must	be	to	open	a	ventilator
into	another	room,	when,	with	the	same	trouble,	he	might	have	communicated	with	the
outside	air!”
“That	is	also	quite	modern,”	said	the	lady.
“Done	about	the	same	time	as	the	bell-rope?”	remarked	Holmes.
“Yes,	there	were	several	little	changes	carried	out	about	that	time.”
“They	seem	to	have	been	of	a	most	interesting	character—dummy	bell-ropes,	and
ventilators	which	do	not	ventilate.	With	your	permission,	**miss**	Stoner,	we	shall	now	carry
our	researches	into	the	inner	apartment.”
Page 121, Paragraph 1: Dr.	Grimesby	Roylott’s	chamber	was	larger	than	that	of	his	step-daughter,	but	was	as
plainly	furnished.	A	camp-bed,	a	small	wooden	shelf	full	of	books,	mostly	of	a	technical
character	an	armchair	beside	the	bed,	a	plain	wooden	chair	against	the	wall,	a	round	table,
and	a	large	iron	safe	were	the	principal	things	which	met	the	eye.	Holmes	walked	slowly
round	and	examined	each	and	all	of	them	with	the	keenest	interest.
“What’s	in	here?”	he	asked,	tapping	the	safe.
“My	stepfather’s	business	papers.”
“Oh!	you	have	seen	inside,	then?”
“Only	once,	some	years	ago.	I	remember	that	it	was	full	of	papers.”
“There	isn’t	a	cat	in	it,	for	example?”
“No.	What	a	strange	idea!”
“Well,	look	at	this!”	He	took	up	a	small	saucer	of	milk	which	stood	on	the	top	of	it.
“No;	we	don’t	keep	a	cat.	But	there	is	a	cheetah	and	a	baboon.”
“Ah,	yes,	of	course!	Well,	a	cheetah	is	just	a	big	cat,	and	yet	a	saucer	of	milk	does	not	go
very	far	in	satisfying	its	wants,	I	daresay.	There	is	one	point	which	I	should	wish	to
determine.”	He	squatted	down	in	front	of	the	wooden	chair	and	examined	the	seat	of	it
with	the	greatest	attention.
“Thank	you.	That	is	quite	settled,”	said	he,	rising	and	putting	his	lens	in	his	pocket.
“Hello!	Here	is	something	interesting!”
The	object	which	had	caught	his	eye	was	a	small	dog	lash	hung	on	one	corner	of	the	bed.
The	lash,	however,	was	curled	upon	itself	and	tied	so	as	to	make	a	loop	of	whipcord.
“What	do	you	make	of	that,	Watson?”
“It’s	a	common	enough	lash.	But	I	don’t	know	why	if	should	be	tied.”
“That	is	not	quite	so	common,	is	it?	Ah,	me!	it’s	a	wicked	world,	and	when	a	clever	man
turns	his	brains	to	crime	it	is	the	worst	of	all.	I	think	that	I	have	seen	enough	now,	**miss**
Stoner,	and	with	your	permission	we	shall	walk	out	upon	the	lawn.”
I	had	never	seen	my	friend’s	face	so	grim	or	his	brow	so	dark	as	it	was	when	we	turned
from	the	scene	of	this	investigation.	We	had	walked	several	times	up	and	down	the	lawn,
neither	**miss**	Stoner	nor	myself	liking	to	break	in	upon	his	thoughts	before	he	roused
himself	from	his	reverie.
“It	is	very	essential,	**miss**	Stoner,”	said	he,	“that	you	should	absolutely	follow	my	advice
in	every	respect.”
“I	shall	most	certainly	do	so.”
“The	matter	is	too	serious	for	any	hesitation.	Your	life	may	depend	upon	your
compliance.”
“I	assure	you	that	I	am	in	your	hands.”
“In	the	first	place,	both	my	friend	and	I	must	spend	the	night	in	your	room.”
Page 122, Paragraph 1: Both	**miss**	Stoner	and	I	gazed	at	him	in	astonishment.
“Yes,	it	must	be	so.	Let	me	explain.	I	believe	that	that	is	the	village	inn	over	there?”
“Yes,	that	is	the	Crown.”
“Very	good.	Your	windows	would	be	visible	from	there?”
“Certainly.”
“You	must	confine	yourself	to	your	room,	on	pretence	of	a	headache,	when	your	stepfather
comes	back.	Then	when	you	hear	him	retire	for	the	night,	you	must	open	the	shutters	of
your	window,	undo	the	hasp,	put	your	lamp	there	as	a	signal	to	us,	and	then	withdraw
quietly	with	everything	which	you	are	likely	to	want	into	the	room	which	you	used	to
occupy.	I	have	no	doubt	that,	in	spite	of	the	repairs,	you	could	manage	there	for	one
night.”
“Oh,	yes,	easily.”
“The	rest	you	will	leave	in	our	hands.”
“But	what	will	you	do?”
“We	shall	spend	the	night	in	your	room,	and	we	shall	investigate	the	cause	of	this	noise
which	has	disturbed	you.”
“I	believe,	Mr.	Holmes,	that	you	have	already	made	up	your	mind,”	said	**miss**	Stoner,
laying	her	hand	upon	my	companion’s	sleeve.
“Perhaps	I	have.”
“Then,	for	pity’s	sake,	tell	me	what	was	the	cause	of	my	sister’s	death.”
“I	should	prefer	to	have	clearer	proofs	before	I	speak.”
“You	can	at	least	tell	me	whether	my	own	thought	is	correct,	and	if	she	died	from	some
sudden	fright.”
“No,	I	do	not	think	so.	I	think	that	there	was	probably	some	more	tangible	cause.	And
now,	**miss**	Stoner,	we	must	leave	you	for	if	Dr.	Roylott	returned	and	saw	us	our	journey
would	be	in	vain.	Good-bye,	and	be	brave,	for	if	you	will	do	what	I	have	told	you	you	may
rest	assured	that	we	shall	soon	drive	away	the	dangers	that	threaten	you.”
Sherlock	Holmes	and	I	had	no	difficulty	in	engaging	a	bedroom	and	sitting-room	at	the
Crown	Inn.	They	were	on	the	upper	floor,	and	from	our	window	we	could	command	a
view	of	the	avenue	gate,	and	of	the	inhabited	wing	of	Stoke	Moran	Manor	House.	At	dusk
we	saw	Dr.	Grimesby	Roylott	drive	past,	his	huge	form	looming	up	beside	the	little	figure
of	the	lad	who	drove	him.	The	boy	had	some	slight	difficulty	in	undoing	the	heavy	iron
gates,	and	we	heard	the	hoarse	roar	of	the	doctor’s	voice	and	saw	the	fury	with	which	he
shook	his	clinched	fists	at	him.	The	trap	drove	on,	and	a	few	minutes	later	we	saw	a
sudden	light	spring	up	among	the	trees	as	the	lamp	was	lit	in	one	of	the	sitting-rooms.
“Do	you	know,	Watson,”	said	Holmes	as	we	sat	together	in	the	gathering	darkness,	“I	have
really	some	scruples	as	to	taking	you	to-night.	There	is	a	distinct	element	of	danger.”
“Can	I	be	of	assistance?”
Page 126, Paragraph 1: serpent.
“It	is	a	swamp	adder!”	cried	Holmes;	“the	deadliest	snake	in	India.	He	has	died	within	ten
seconds	of	being	bitten.	Violence	does,	in	truth,	recoil	upon	the	violent,	and	the	schemer
falls	into	the	pit	which	he	digs	for	another.	Let	us	thrust	this	creature	back	into	its	den,	and
we	can	then	remove	**miss**	Stoner	to	some	place	of	shelter	and	let	the	county	police	know
what	has	happened.”
As	he	spoke	he	drew	the	dog-whip	swiftly	from	the	dead	man’s	lap,	and	throwing	the
noose	round	the	reptile’s	neck	he	drew	it	from	its	horrid	perch	and,	carrying	it	at	arm’s
length,	threw	it	into	the	iron	safe,	which	he	closed	upon	it.
Such	are	the	true	facts	of	the	death	of	Dr.	Grimesby	Roylott,	of	Stoke	Moran.	It	is	not
necessary	that	I	should	prolong	a	narrative	which	has	already	run	to	too	great	a	length	by
telling	how	we	broke	the	sad	news	to	the	terrified	girl,	how	we	conveyed	her	by	the
morning	train	to	the	care	of	her	good	aunt	at	Harrow,	of	how	the	slow	process	of	official
inquiry	came	to	the	conclusion	that	the	doctor	met	his	fate	while	indiscreetly	playing	with
a	dangerous	pet.	The	little	which	I	had	yet	to	learn	of	the	case	was	told	me	by	Sherlock
Holmes	as	we	travelled	back	next	day.
“I	had,”	said	he,	“come	to	an	entirely	erroneous	conclusion	which	shows,	my	dear	Watson,
how	dangerous	it	always	is	to	reason	from	insufficient	data.	The	presence	of	the	gypsies,
and	the	use	of	the	word	‘band,’	which	was	used	by	the	poor	girl,	no	doubt	to	explain	the
appearance	which	she	had	caught	a	hurried	glimpse	of	by	the	light	of	her	match,	were
sufficient	to	put	me	upon	an	entirely	wrong	scent.	I	can	only	claim	the	merit	that	I
instantly	reconsidered	my	position	when,	however,	it	became	clear	to	me	that	whatever
danger	threatened	an	occupant	of	the	room	could	not	come	either	from	the	window	or	the
door.	My	attention	was	speedily	drawn,	as	I	have	already	remarked	to	you,	to	this
ventilator,	and	to	the	bell-rope	which	hung	down	to	the	bed.	The	discovery	that	this	was	a
dummy,	and	that	the	bed	was	clamped	to	the	floor,	instantly	gave	rise	to	the	suspicion	that
the	rope	was	there	as	a	bridge	for	something	passing	through	the	hole	and	coming	to	the
bed.	The	idea	of	a	snake	instantly	occurred	to	me,	and	when	I	coupled	it	with	my
knowledge	that	the	doctor	was	furnished	with	a	supply	of	creatures	from	India,	I	felt	that	I
was	probably	on	the	right	track.	The	idea	of	using	a	form	of	poison	which	could	not
possibly	be	discovered	by	any	chemical	test	was	just	such	a	one	as	would	occur	to	a	clever
and	ruthless	man	who	had	had	an	Eastern	training.	The	rapidity	with	which	such	a	poison
would	take	effect	would	also,	from	his	point	of	view,	be	an	advantage.	It	would	be	a	sharp-
eyed	coroner,	indeed,	who	could	distinguish	the	two	little	dark	punctures	which	would
show	where	the	poison	fangs	had	done	their	work.	Then	I	thought	of	the	whistle.	Of
course	he	must	recall	the	snake	before	the	morning	light	revealed	it	to	the	victim.	He	had
trained	it,	probably	by	the	use	of	the	milk	which	we	saw,	to	return	to	him	when
summoned.	He	would	put	it	through	this	ventilator	at	the	hour	that	he	thought	best,	with
the	certainty	that	it	would	crawl	down	the	rope	and	land	on	the	bed.	It	might	or	might	not
bite	the	occupant,	perhaps	she	might	escape	every	night	for	a	week,	but	sooner	or	later	she
must	fall	a	victim.
“I	had	come	to	these	conclusions	before	ever	I	had	entered	his	room.	An	inspection	of	his
chair	showed	me	that	he	had	been	in	the	habit	of	standing	on	it,	which	of	course	would	be
necessary	in	order	that	he	should	reach	the	ventilator.	The	sight	of	the	safe,	the	saucer	of
Page 127, Paragraph 1: milk,	and	the	loop	of	whipcord	were	enough	to	finally	dispel	any	doubts	which	may	have
remained.	The	metallic	clang	heard	by	**miss**	Stoner	was	obviously	caused	by	her
stepfather	hastily	closing	the	door	of	his	safe	upon	its	terrible	occupant.	Having	once	made
up	my	mind,	you	know	the	steps	which	I	took	in	order	to	put	the	matter	to	the	proof.	I
heard	the	creature	hiss	as	I	have	no	doubt	that	you	did	also,	and	I	instantly	lit	the	light	and
attacked	it.”
“With	the	result	of	driving	it	through	the	ventilator.”
“And	also	with	the	result	of	causing	it	to	turn	upon	its	master	at	the	other	side.	Some	of
the	blows	of	my	cane	came	home	and	roused	its	snakish	temper,	so	that	it	flew	upon	the
first	person	it	saw.	In	this	way	I	am	no	doubt	indirectly	responsible	for	Dr.	Grimesby
Roylott’s	death,	and	I	cannot	say	that	it	is	likely	to	weigh	very	heavily	upon	my
conscience.”
ADVENTURE	IX.	THE	ADVENTURE	OF	THE	ENGINEER’S	THUMB
Of	all	the	problems	which	have	been	submitted	to	my	friend,	Mr.	Sherlock	Holmes,	for
solution	during	the	years	of	our	intimacy,	there	were	only	two	which	I	was	the	means	of
introducing	to	his	notice—that	of	Mr.	Hatherley’s	thumb,	and	that	of	Colonel	Warburton’s
madness.	Of	these	the	latter	may	have	afforded	a	finer	field	for	an	acute	and	original
observer,	but	the	other	was	so	strange	in	its	inception	and	so	dramatic	in	its	details	that	it
may	be	the	more	worthy	of	being	placed	upon	record,	even	if	it	gave	my	friend	fewer
openings	for	those	deductive	methods	of	reasoning	by	which	he	achieved	such	remarkable
results.	The	story	has,	I	believe,	been	told	more	than	once	in	the	newspapers,	but,	like	all
such	narratives,	its	effect	is	much	less	striking	when	set	forth	en	bloc	in	a	single	half-
column	of	print	than	when	the	facts	slowly	evolve	before	your	own	eyes,	and	the	mystery
clears	gradually	away	as	each	new	discovery	furnishes	a	step	which	leads	on	to	the
complete	truth.	At	the	time	the	circumstances	made	a	deep	impression	upon	me,	and	the
lapse	of	two	years	has	hardly	served	to	weaken	the	effect.
It	was	in	the	summer	of	‘89,	not	long	after	my	marriage,	that	the	events	occurred	which	I
am	now	about	to	summarize.	I	had	returned	to	civil	practice	and	had	finally	abandoned
Holmes	in	his	Baker	Street	rooms,	although	I	continually	visited	him	and	occasionally
even	persuaded	him	to	forgo	his	Bohemian	habits	so	far	as	to	come	and	visit	us.	My
practice	had	steadily	increased,	and	as	I	happened	to	live	at	no	very	great	distance	from
Paddington	Station,	I	got	a	few	patients	from	among	the	officials.	One	of	these,	whom	I
had	cured	of	a	painful	and	lingering	disease,	was	never	weary	of	advertising	my	virtues
and	of	endeavoring	to	send	me	on	every	sufferer	over	whom	he	might	have	any	influence.
One	morning,	at	a	little	before	seven	o’clock,	I	was	awakened	by	the	maid	tapping	at	the
door	to	announce	that	two	men	had	come	from	Paddington	and	were	waiting	in	the
consulting-room.	I	dressed	hurriedly,	for	I	knew	by	experience	that	railway	cases	were
seldom	trivial,	and	hastened	downstairs.	As	I	descended,	my	old	ally,	the	guard,	came	out
of	the	room	and	closed	the	door	tightly	behind	him.
“I’ve	got	him	here,”	he	whispered,	jerking	his	thumb	over	his	shoulder;	“he’s	all	right.”
“What	is	it,	then?”	I	asked,	for	his	manner	suggested	that	it	was	some	strange	creature
which	he	had	caged	up	in	my	room.
Page 144, Paragraph 1: “Here	is	the	first	notice	which	I	can	find.	It	is	in	the	personal	column	of	the	Morning	Post,
and	dates,	as	you	see,	some	weeks	back:	‘A	marriage	has	been	arranged,’	it	says,	‘and	will,
if	rumour	is	correct,	very	shortly	take	place,	between	Lord	Robert	St.	Simon,	second	son
of	the	Duke	of	Balmoral,	and	**miss**	Hatty	Doran,	the	only	daughter	of	Aloysius	Doran.
Esq.,	of	San	Francisco,	Cal.,	U.S.A.’	That	is	all.”
“Terse	and	to	the	point,”	remarked	Holmes,	stretching	his	long,	thin	legs	towards	the	fire.
“There	was	a	paragraph	amplifying	this	in	one	of	the	society	papers	of	the	same	week.	Ah,
here	it	is:	‘There	will	soon	be	a	call	for	protection	in	the	marriage	market,	for	the	present
free-trade	principle	appears	to	tell	heavily	against	our	home	product.	One	by	one	the
management	of	the	noble	houses	of	Great	Britain	is	passing	into	the	hands	of	our	fair
cousins	from	across	the	Atlantic.	An	important	addition	has	been	made	during	the	last
week	to	the	list	of	the	prizes	which	have	been	borne	away	by	these	charming	invaders.
Lord	St.	Simon,	who	has	shown	himself	for	over	twenty	years	proof	against	the	little	god’s
arrows,	has	now	definitely	announced	his	approaching	marriage	with	**miss**	Hatty	Doran,
the	fascinating	daughter	of	a	California	millionaire.	**miss**	Doran,	whose	graceful	figure
and	striking	face	attracted	much	attention	at	the	Westbury	House	festivities,	is	an	only
child,	and	it	is	currently	reported	that	her	dowry	will	run	to	considerably	over	the	six
figures,	with	expectancies	for	the	future.	As	it	is	an	open	secret	that	the	Duke	of	Balmoral
has	been	compelled	to	sell	his	pictures	within	the	last	few	years,	and	as	Lord	St.	Simon
has	no	property	of	his	own	save	the	small	estate	of	Birchmoor,	it	is	obvious	that	the
Californian	heiress	is	not	the	only	gainer	by	an	alliance	which	will	enable	her	to	make	the
easy	and	common	transition	from	a	Republican	lady	to	a	British	peeress.’”
“Anything	else?”	asked	Holmes,	yawning.
“Oh,	yes;	plenty.	Then	there	is	another	note	in	the	Morning	Post	to	say	that	the	marriage
would	be	an	absolutely	quiet	one,	that	it	would	be	at	St.	George’s,	Hanover	Square,	that
only	half	a	dozen	intimate	friends	would	be	invited,	and	that	the	party	would	return	to	the
furnished	house	at	Lancaster	Gate	which	has	been	taken	by	Mr.	Aloysius	Doran.	Two	days
later—that	is,	on	Wednesday	last—there	is	a	curt	announcement	that	the	wedding	had
taken	place,	and	that	the	honeymoon	would	be	passed	at	Lord	Backwater’s	place,	near
Petersfield.	Those	are	all	the	notices	which	appeared	before	the	disappearance	of	the
bride.”
“Before	the	what?”	asked	Holmes	with	a	start.
“The	vanishing	of	the	lady.”
“When	did	she	vanish,	then?”
“At	the	wedding	breakfast.”
“Indeed.	This	is	more	interesting	than	it	promised	to	be;	quite	dramatic,	in	fact.”
“Yes;	it	struck	me	as	being	a	little	out	of	the	common.”
“They	often	vanish	before	the	ceremony,	and	occasionally	during	the	honeymoon;	but	I
cannot	call	to	mind	anything	quite	so	prompt	as	this.	Pray	let	me	have	the	details.”
“I	warn	you	that	they	are	very	incomplete.”
Page 145, Paragraph 1: “Perhaps	we	may	make	them	less	so.”
“Such	as	they	are,	they	are	set	forth	in	a	single	article	of	a	morning	paper	of	yesterday,
which	I	will	read	to	you.	It	is	headed,	‘Singular	Occurrence	at	a	Fashionable	Wedding’:
“‘The	family	of	Lord	Robert	St.	Simon	has	been	thrown	into	the	greatest	consternation	by
the	strange	and	painful	episodes	which	have	taken	place	in	connection	with	his	wedding.
The	ceremony,	as	shortly	announced	in	the	papers	of	yesterday,	occurred	on	the	previous
morning;	but	it	is	only	now	that	it	has	been	possible	to	confirm	the	strange	rumours	which
have	been	so	persistently	floating	about.	In	spite	of	the	attempts	of	the	friends	to	hush	the
matter	up,	so	much	public	attention	has	now	been	drawn	to	it	that	no	good	purpose	can	be
served	by	affecting	to	disregard	what	is	a	common	subject	for	conversation.
“‘The	ceremony,	which	was	performed	at	St.	George’s,	Hanover	Square,	was	a	very	quiet
one,	no	one	being	present	save	the	father	of	the	bride,	Mr.	Aloysius	Doran,	the	Duchess	of
Balmoral,	Lord	Backwater,	Lord	Eustace,	and	Lady	Clara	St.	Simon	(the	younger	brother
and	sister	of	the	bridegroom),	and	Lady	Alicia	Whittington.	The	whole	party	proceeded
afterwards	to	the	house	of	Mr.	Aloysius	Doran,	at	Lancaster	Gate,	where	breakfast	had
been	prepared.	It	appears	that	some	little	trouble	was	caused	by	a	woman,	whose	name	has
not	been	ascertained,	who	endeavored	to	force	her	way	into	the	house	after	the	bridal
party,	alleging	that	she	had	some	claim	upon	Lord	St.	Simon.	It	was	only	after	a	painful
and	prolonged	scene	that	she	was	ejected	by	the	butler	and	the	footman.	The	bride,	who
had	fortunately	entered	the	house	before	this	unpleasant	interruption,	had	sat	down	to
breakfast	with	the	rest,	when	she	complained	of	a	sudden	indisposition	and	retired	to	her
room.	Her	prolonged	absence	having	caused	some	comment,	her	father	followed	her,	but
learned	from	her	maid	that	she	had	only	come	up	to	her	chamber	for	an	instant,	caught	up
an	ulster	and	bonnet,	and	hurried	down	to	the	passage.	One	of	the	footmen	declared	that
he	had	seen	a	lady	leave	the	house	thus	apparelled,	but	had	refused	to	credit	that	it	was	his
mistress,	believing	her	to	be	with	the	company.	On	ascertaining	that	his	daughter	had
disappeared,	Mr.	Aloysius	Doran,	in	conjunction	with	the	bridegroom,	instantly	put
themselves	in	communication	with	the	police,	and	very	energetic	inquiries	are	being	made,
which	will	probably	result	in	a	speedy	clearing	up	of	this	very	singular	business.	Up	to	a
late	hour	last	night,	however,	nothing	had	transpired	as	to	the	whereabouts	of	the	missing
lady.	There	are	rumours	of	foul	play	in	the	matter,	and	it	is	said	that	the	police	have	caused
the	arrest	of	the	woman	who	had	caused	the	original	disturbance,	in	the	belief	that,	from
jealousy	or	some	other	motive,	she	may	have	been	concerned	in	the	strange	disappearance
of	the	bride.’”
“And	is	that	all?”
“Only	one	little	item	in	another	of	the	morning	papers,	but	it	is	a	suggestive	one.”
“And	it	is—”
“That	**miss**	Flora	Millar,	the	lady	who	had	caused	the	disturbance,	has	actually	been
arrested.	It	appears	that	she	was	formerly	a	danseuse	at	the	Allegro,	and	that	she	has
known	the	bridegroom	for	some	years.	There	are	no	further	particulars,	and	the	whole	case
is	in	your	hands	now—so	far	as	it	has	been	set	forth	in	the	public	press.”
“And	an	exceedingly	interesting	case	it	appears	to	be.	I	would	not	have	missed	it	for
worlds.	But	there	is	a	ring	at	the	bell,	Watson,	and	as	the	clock	makes	it	a	few	minutes
Page 146, Paragraph 1: after	four,	I	have	no	doubt	that	this	will	prove	to	be	our	noble	client.	Do	not	dream	of
going,	Watson,	for	I	very	much	prefer	having	a	witness,	if	only	as	a	check	to	my	own
memory.”
“Lord	Robert	St.	Simon,”	announced	our	page-boy,	throwing	open	the	door.	A	gentleman
entered,	with	a	pleasant,	cultured	face,	high-nosed	and	pale,	with	something	perhaps	of
petulance	about	the	mouth,	and	with	the	steady,	well-opened	eye	of	a	man	whose	pleasant
lot	it	had	ever	been	to	command	and	to	be	obeyed.	His	manner	was	brisk,	and	yet	his
general	appearance	gave	an	undue	impression	of	age,	for	he	had	a	slight	forward	stoop	and
a	little	bend	of	the	knees	as	he	walked.	His	hair,	too,	as	he	swept	off	his	very	curly-
brimmed	hat,	was	grizzled	round	the	edges	and	thin	upon	the	top.	As	to	his	dress,	it	was
careful	to	the	verge	of	foppishness,	with	high	collar,	black	frock-coat,	white	waistcoat,
yellow	gloves,	patent-leather	shoes,	and	light-colored	gaiters.	He	advanced	slowly	into	the
room,	turning	his	head	from	left	to	right,	and	swinging	in	his	right	hand	the	cord	which
held	his	golden	eyeglasses.
“Good-day,	Lord	St.	Simon,”	said	Holmes,	rising	and	bowing.	“Pray	take	the	basket-chair.
This	is	my	friend	and	colleague,	Dr.	Watson.	Draw	up	a	little	to	the	fire,	and	we	will	talk
this	matter	over.”
“A	most	painful	matter	to	me,	as	you	can	most	readily	imagine,	Mr.	Holmes.	I	have	been
cut	to	the	quick.	I	understand	that	you	have	already	managed	several	delicate	cases	of	this
sort	sir,	though	I	presume	that	they	were	hardly	from	the	same	class	of	society.”
“No,	I	am	descending.”
“I	beg	pardon.”
“My	last	client	of	the	sort	was	a	king.”
“Oh,	really!	I	had	no	idea.	And	which	king?”
“The	King	of	Scandinavia.”
“What!	Had	he	lost	his	wife?”
“You	can	understand,”	said	Holmes	suavely,	“that	I	extend	to	the	affairs	of	my	other
clients	the	same	secrecy	which	I	promise	to	you	in	yours.”
“Of	course!	Very	right!	very	right!	I’m	sure	I	beg	pardon.	As	to	my	own	case,	I	am	ready
to	give	you	any	information	which	may	assist	you	in	forming	an	opinion.”
“Thank	you.	I	have	already	learned	all	that	is	in	the	public	prints,	nothing	more.	I	presume
that	I	may	take	it	as	correct—	this	article,	for	example,	as	to	the	disappearance	of	the
bride.”
Lord	St.	Simon	glanced	over	it.	“Yes,	it	is	correct,	as	far	as	it	goes.”
“But	it	needs	a	great	deal	of	supplementing	before	anyone	could	offer	an	opinion.	I	think
that	I	may	arrive	at	my	facts	most	directly	by	questioning	you.”
“Pray	do	so.”
“When	did	you	first	meet	**miss**	Hatty	Doran?”
“In	San	Francisco,	a	year	ago.”
Page 147, Paragraph 1: “You	were	travelling	in	the	States?”
“Yes.”
“Did	you	become	engaged	then?”
“No.”
“But	you	were	on	a	friendly	footing?”
“I	was	amused	by	her	society,	and	she	could	see	that	I	was	amused.”
“Her	father	is	very	rich?”
“He	is	said	to	be	the	richest	man	on	the	Pacific	slope.”
“And	how	did	he	make	his	money?”
“In	mining.	He	had	nothing	a	few	years	ago.	Then	he	struck	gold,	invested	it,	and	came	up
by	leaps	and	bounds.”
“Now,	what	is	your	own	impression	as	to	the	young	lady’s—your	wife’s	character?”
The	nobleman	swung	his	glasses	a	little	faster	and	stared	down	into	the	fire.	“You	see,	Mr.
Holmes,”	said	he,	“my	wife	was	twenty	before	her	father	became	a	rich	man.	During	that
time	she	ran	free	in	a	mining	camp	and	wandered	through	woods	or	mountains,	so	that	her
education	has	come	from	Nature	rather	than	from	the	schoolmaster.	She	is	what	we	call	in
England	a	tomboy,	with	a	strong	nature,	wild	and	free,	unfettered	by	any	sort	of	traditions.
She	is	impetuous—volcanic,	I	was	about	to	say.	She	is	swift	in	making	up	her	mind	and
fearless	in	carrying	out	her	resolutions.	On	the	other	hand,	I	would	not	have	given	her	the
name	which	I	have	the	honor	to	bear”—he	gave	a	little	stately	cough—“had	not	I	thought
her	to	be	at	bottom	a	noble	woman.	I	believe	that	she	is	capable	of	heroic	self-sacrifice
and	that	anything	dishonorable	would	be	repugnant	to	her.”
“Have	you	her	photograph?”
“I	brought	this	with	me.”	He	opened	a	locket	and	showed	us	the	full	face	of	a	very	lovely
woman.	It	was	not	a	photograph	but	an	ivory	miniature,	and	the	artist	had	brought	out	the
full	effect	of	the	lustrous	black	hair,	the	large	dark	eyes,	and	the	exquisite	mouth.	Holmes
gazed	long	and	earnestly	at	it.	Then	he	closed	the	locket	and	handed	it	back	to	Lord	St.
Simon.
“The	young	lady	came	to	London,	then,	and	you	renewed	your	acquaintance?”
“Yes,	her	father	brought	her	over	for	this	last	London	season.	I	met	her	several	times,
became	engaged	to	her,	and	have	now	married	her.”
“She	brought,	I	understand,	a	considerable	dowry?”
“A	fair	dowry.	Not	more	than	is	usual	in	my	family.”
“And	this,	of	course,	remains	to	you,	since	the	marriage	is	a	fait	accompli?”
“I	really	have	made	no	inquiries	on	the	subject.”
“Very	naturally	not.	Did	you	see	**miss**	Doran	on	the	day	before	the	wedding?”
“Yes.”
Page 151, Paragraph 1: nor	tail	of	the	business.”
“Really!	You	surprise	me.”
“Who	ever	heard	of	such	a	mixed	affair?	Every	clew	seems	to	slip	through	my	fingers.	I
have	been	at	work	upon	it	all	day.”
“And	very	wet	it	seems	to	have	made	you,”	said	Holmes	laying	his	hand	upon	the	arm	of
the	pea-jacket.
“Yes,	I	have	been	dragging	the	Serpentine.”
“In	heaven’s	name,	what	for?”
“In	search	of	the	body	of	Lady	St.	Simon.”
Sherlock	Holmes	leaned	back	in	his	chair	and	laughed	heartily.
“Have	you	dragged	the	basin	of	Trafalgar	Square	fountain?”	he	asked.
“Why?	What	do	you	mean?”
“Because	you	have	just	as	good	a	chance	of	finding	this	lady	in	the	one	as	in	the	other.”
Lestrade	shot	an	angry	glance	at	my	companion.	“I	suppose	you	know	all	about	it,”	he
snarled.
“Well,	I	have	only	just	heard	the	facts,	but	my	mind	is	made	up.”
“Oh,	indeed!	Then	you	think	that	the	Serpentine	plays	no	part	in	the	maner?”
“I	think	it	very	unlikely.”
“Then	perhaps	you	will	kindly	explain	how	it	is	that	we	found	this	in	it?”	He	opened	his
bag	as	he	spoke,	and	tumbled	onto	the	floor	a	wedding-dress	of	watered	silk,	a	pair	of
white	satin	shoes	and	a	bride’s	wreath	and	veil,	all	discolored	and	soaked	in	water.
“There,”	said	he,	putting	a	new	wedding-ring	upon	the	top	of	the	pile.	“There	is	a	little	nut
for	you	to	crack,	Master	Holmes.”
“Oh,	indeed!”	said	my	friend,	blowing	blue	rings	into	the	air.	“You	dragged	them	from	the
Serpentine?”
“No.	They	were	found	floating	near	the	margin	by	a	park-keeper.	They	have	been
identified	as	her	clothes,	and	it	seemed	to	me	that	if	the	clothes	were	there	the	body	would
not	be	far	off.”
“By	the	same	brilliant	reasoning,	every	man’s	body	is	to	be	found	in	the	neighborhood	of
his	wardrobe.	And	pray	what	did	you	hope	to	arrive	at	through	this?”
“At	some	evidence	implicating	Flora	Millar	in	the	disappearance.”
“I	am	afraid	that	you	will	find	it	difficult.”
“Are	you,	indeed,	now?”	cried	Lestrade	with	some	bitterness.	“I	am	afraid,	Holmes,	that
you	are	not	very	practical	with	your	deductions	and	your	inferences.	You	have	made	two
blunders	in	as	many	minutes.	This	dress	does	implicate	**miss**	Flora	Millar.”
“And	how?”
Page 166, Paragraph 1: her	eyes	were	flushed	with	crying.	As	she	swept	silently	into	the	room	she	impressed	me
with	a	greater	sense	of	grief	than	the	banker	had	done	in	the	morning,	and	it	was	the	more
striking	in	her	as	she	was	evidently	a	woman	of	strong	character,	with	immense	capacity
for	self-restraint.	Disregarding	my	presence,	she	went	straight	to	her	uncle	and	passed	her
hand	over	his	head	with	a	sweet	womanly	caress.
“You	have	given	orders	that	Arthur	should	be	liberated,	have	you	not,	dad?”	she	asked.
“No,	no,	my	girl,	the	matter	must	be	probed	to	the	bottom.”
“But	I	am	so	sure	that	he	is	innocent.	You	know	what	woman’s	instincts	are.	I	know	that
he	has	done	no	harm	and	that	you	will	be	sorry	for	having	acted	so	harshly.”
“Why	is	he	silent,	then,	if	he	is	innocent?”
“Who	knows?	Perhaps	because	he	was	so	angry	that	you	should	suspect	him.”
“How	could	I	help	suspecting	him,	when	I	actually	saw	him	with	the	coronet	in	his	hand?”
“Oh,	but	he	had	only	picked	it	up	to	look	at	it.	Oh,	do,	do	take	my	word	for	it	that	he	is
innocent.	Let	the	matter	drop	and	say	no	more.	It	is	so	dreadful	to	think	of	our	dear	Arthur
in	prison!”
“I	shall	never	let	it	drop	until	the	gems	are	found—never,	Mary!	Your	affection	for	Arthur
blinds	you	as	to	the	awful	consequences	to	me.	Far	from	hushing	the	thing	up,	I	have
brought	a	gentleman	down	from	London	to	inquire	more	deeply	into	it.”
“This	gentleman?”	she	asked,	facing	round	to	me.
“No,	his	friend.	He	wished	us	to	leave	him	alone.	He	is	round	in	the	stable	lane	now.”
“The	stable	lane?”	She	raised	her	dark	eyebrows.	“What	can	he	hope	to	find	there?	Ah!
this,	I	suppose,	is	he.	I	trust,	sir,	that	you	will	succeed	in	proving,	what	I	feel	sure	is	the
truth,	that	my	cousin	Arthur	is	innocent	of	this	crime.”
“I	fully	share	your	opinion,	and	I	trust,	with	you,	that	we	may	prove	it,”	returned	Holmes,
going	back	to	the	mat	to	knock	the	snow	from	his	shoes.	“I	believe	I	have	the	honor	of
addressing	**miss**	Mary	Holder.	Might	I	ask	you	a	question	or	two?”
“Pray	do,	sir,	if	it	may	help	to	clear	this	horrible	affair	up.”
“You	heard	nothing	yourself	last	night?”
“Nothing,	until	my	uncle	here	began	to	speak	loudly.	I	heard	that,	and	I	came	down.”
“You	shut	up	the	windows	and	doors	the	night	before.	Did	you	fasten	all	the	windows?”
“Yes.”
“Were	they	all	fastened	this	morning?”
“Yes.”
“You	have	a	maid	who	has	a	sweetheart?	I	think	that	you	remarked	to	your	uncle	last	night
that	she	had	been	out	to	see	him?”
“Yes,	and	she	was	the	girl	who	waited	in	the	drawing-room.	and	who	may	have	heard
uncle’s	remarks	about	the	coronet.”
Page 167, Paragraph 1: “I	see.	You	infer	that	she	may	have	gone	out	to	tell	her	sweetheart,	and	that	the	two	may
have	planned	the	robbery.”
“But	what	is	the	good	of	all	these	vague	theories,”	cried	the	banker	impatiently,	“when	I
have	told	you	that	I	saw	Arthur	with	the	coronet	in	his	hands?”
“Wait	a	little,	Mr.	Holder.	We	must	come	back	to	that.	About	this	girl,	**miss**	Holder.	You
saw	her	return	by	the	kitchen	door,	I	presume?”
“Yes;	when	I	went	to	see	if	the	door	was	fastened	for	the	night	I	met	her	slipping	in.	I	saw
the	man,	too,	in	the	gloom.”
“Do	you	know	him?”
“Oh,	yes!	he	is	the	green-grocer	who	brings	our	vegetables	round.	His	name	is	Francis
Prosper.”
“He	stood,”	said	Holmes,	“to	the	left	of	the	door—that	is	to	say,	farther	up	the	path	than	is
necessary	to	reach	the	door?”
“Yes,	he	did.”
“And	he	is	a	man	with	a	wooden	leg?”
Something	like	fear	sprang	up	in	the	young	lady’s	expressive	black	eyes.	“Why,	you	are
like	a	magician,”	said	she.	“How	do	you	know	that?”	She	smiled,	but	there	was	no
answering	smile	in	Holmes’s	thin,	eager	face.
“I	should	be	very	glad	now	to	go	upstairs,”	said	he.	“I	shall	probably	wish	to	go	over	the
outside	of	the	house	again.	Perhaps	I	had	better	take	a	look	at	the	lower	windows	before	I
go	up.”
He	walked	swiftly	round	from	one	to	the	other,	pausing	only	at	the	large	one	which	looked
from	the	hall	onto	the	stable	lane.	This	he	opened	and	made	a	very	careful	examination	of
the	sill	with	his	powerful	magnifying	lens.	“Now	we	shall	go	upstairs,”	said	he	at	last.
The	banker’s	dressing-room	was	a	plainly	furnished	little	chamber,	with	a	gray	carpet,	a
large	bureau,	and	a	long	mirror.	Holmes	went	to	the	bureau	first	and	looked	hard	at	the
lock.
“Which	key	was	used	to	open	it?”	he	asked.
“That	which	my	son	himself	indicated—that	of	the	cupboard	of	the	lumber-room.”
“Have	you	it	here?”
“That	is	it	on	the	dressing-table.”
Sherlock	Holmes	took	it	up	and	opened	the	bureau.
“It	is	a	noiseless	lock,”	said	he.	“It	is	no	wonder	that	it	did	not	wake	you.	This	case,	I
presume,	contains	the	coronet.	We	must	have	a	look	at	it.”	He	opened	the	case,	and	taking
out	the	diadem	he	laid	it	upon	the	table.	It	was	a	magnificent	specimen	of	the	jeweller’s
art,	and	the	thirty-six	stones	were	the	finest	that	I	have	ever	seen.	At	one	side	of	the
coronet	was	a	cracked	edge,	where	a	corner	holding	three	gems	had	been	torn	away.
“Now,	Mr.	Holder,”	said	Holmes,	“here	is	the	corner	which	corresponds	to	that	which	has
Page 168, Paragraph 1: been	so	unfortunately	lost.	Might	I	beg	that	you	will	break	it	off.”
The	banker	recoiled	in	horror.	“I	should	not	dream	of	trying,”	said	he.
“Then	I	will.”	Holmes	suddenly	bent	his	strength	upon	it,	but	without	result.	“I	feel	it	give
a	little,”	said	he;	“but,	though	I	am	exceptionally	strong	in	the	fingers,	it	would	take	me	all
my	time	to	break	it.	An	ordinary	man	could	not	do	it.	Now,	what	do	you	think	would
happen	if	I	did	break	it,	Mr.	Holder?	There	would	be	a	noise	like	a	pistol	shot.	Do	you	tell
me	that	all	this	happened	within	a	few	yards	of	your	bed	and	that	you	heard	nothing	of	it?”
“I	do	not	know	what	to	think.	It	is	all	dark	to	me.”
“But	perhaps	it	may	grow	lighter	as	we	go.	What	do	you	think,	**miss**	Holder?”
“I	confess	that	I	still	share	my	uncle’s	perplexity.”
“Your	son	had	no	shoes	or	slippers	on	when	you	saw	him?”
“He	had	nothing	on	save	only	his	trousers	and	shirt.”
“Thank	you.	We	have	certainly	been	favored	with	extraordinary	luck	during	this	inquiry,
and	it	will	be	entirely	our	own	fault	if	we	do	not	succeed	in	clearing	the	matter	up.	With
your	pemmission,	Mr.	Holder,	I	shall	now	continue	my	investigations	outside.”
He	went	alone,	at	his	own	request,	for	he	explained	that	any	unnecessary	footmarks	might
make	his	task	more	difficult.	For	an	hour	or	more	he	was	at	work,	returning	at	last	with	his
feet	heavy	with	snow	and	his	features	as	inscrutable	as	ever.
“I	think	that	I	have	seen	now	all	that	there	is	to	see,	Mr.	Holder,”	said	he;	“I	can	serve	you
best	by	returning	to	my	rooms.”
“But	the	gems,	Mr.	Holmes.	Where	are	they?”
“I	cannot	tell.”
The	banker	wrung	his	hands.	“I	shall	never	see	them	again!”	he	cried.	“And	my	son?	You
give	me	hopes?”
“My	opinion	is	in	no	way	altered.”
“Then,	for	God’s	sake,	what	was	this	dark	business	which	was	acted	in	my	house	last
night?”
“If	you	can	call	upon	me	at	my	Baker	Street	rooms	to-morrow	morning	between	nine	and
ten	I	shall	be	happy	to	do	what	I	can	to	make	it	clearer.	I	understand	that	you	give	me	carte
blanche	to	act	for	you,	provided	only	that	I	get	back	the	gems,	and	that	you	place	no	limit
on	the	sum	I	may	draw.”
“I	would	give	my	fortune	to	have	them	back.”
“Very	good.	I	shall	look	into	the	matter	between	this	and	then.	Good-bye;	it	is	just	possible
that	I	may	have	to	come	over	here	again	before	evening.”
It	was	obvious	to	me	that	my	companion’s	mind	was	now	made	up	about	the	case,
although	what	his	conclusions	were	was	more	than	I	could	even	dimly	imagine.	Several
times	during	our	homeward	journey	I	endeavored	to	sound	him	upon	the	point,	but	he
always	glided	away	to	some	other	topic,	until	at	last	I	gave	it	over	in	despair.	It	was	not	yet
Page 175, Paragraph 1: china	and	metal,	for	the	table	had	not	been	cleared	yet.	Sherlock	Holmes	had	been	silent
all	the	morning,	dipping	continuously	into	the	advertisement	columns	of	a	succession	of
papers	until	at	last,	having	apparently	given	up	his	search,	he	had	emerged	in	no	very
sweet	temper	to	lecture	me	upon	my	literary	shortcomings.
“At	the	same	time,”	he	remarked	after	a	pause,	during	which	he	had	sat	puffing	at	his	long
pipe	and	gazing	down	into	the	fire,	“you	can	hardly	be	open	to	a	charge	of	sensationalism,
for	out	of	these	cases	which	you	have	been	so	kind	as	to	interest	yourself	in,	a	fair
proportion	do	not	treat	of	crime,	in	its	legal	sense,	at	all.	The	small	matter	in	which	I
endeavored	to	help	the	King	of	Bohemia,	the	singular	experience	of	**miss**	Mary
Sutherland,	the	problem	connected	with	the	man	with	the	twisted	lip,	and	the	incident	of
the	noble	bachelor,	were	all	matters	which	are	outside	the	pale	of	the	law.	But	in	avoiding
the	sensational,	I	fear	that	you	may	have	bordered	on	the	trivial.”
“The	end	may	have	been	so,”	I	answered,	“but	the	methods	I	hold	to	have	been	novel	and
of	interest.”
“Pshaw,	my	dear	fellow,	what	do	the	public,	the	great	unobservant	public,	who	could
hardly	tell	a	weaver	by	his	tooth	or	a	compositor	by	his	left	thumb,	care	about	the	finer
shades	of	analysis	and	deduction!	But,	indeed,	if	you	are	trivial.	I	cannot	blame	you,	for
the	days	of	the	great	cases	are	past.	Man,	or	at	least	criminal	man,	has	lost	all	enterprise
and	originality.	As	to	my	own	little	practice,	it	seems	to	be	degenerating	into	an	agency	for
recovering	lost	lead	pencils	and	giving	advice	to	young	ladies	from	boarding-schools.	I
think	that	I	have	touched	bottom	at	last,	however.	This	note	I	had	this	morning	marks	my
zero-point,	I	fancy.	Read	it!”	He	tossed	a	crumpled	letter	across	to	me.
It	was	dated	from	Montague	Place	upon	the	preceding	evening,	and	ran	thus:
“DEAR	MR.	HOLMES:—I	am	very	anxious	to	consult	you	as	to	whether	I	should	or
should	not	accept	a	situation	which	has	been	offered	to	me	as	governess.	I	shall	call	at
half-past	ten	to-morrow	if	I	do	not	inconvenience	you.	Yours	faithfully,	VIOLET
HUNTER.”
“Do	you	know	the	young	lady?”	I	asked.
“Not	I.”
“It	is	half-past	ten	now.”
“Yes,	and	I	have	no	doubt	that	is	her	ring.”
“It	may	turn	out	to	be	of	more	interest	than	you	think.	You	remember	that	the	affair	of	the
blue	carbuncle,	which	appeared	to	be	a	mere	whim	at	first,	developed	into	a	serious
investigation.	It	may	be	so	in	this	case,	also.”
“Well,	let	us	hope	so.	But	our	doubts	will	very	soon	be	solved,	for	here,	unless	I	am	much
mistaken,	is	the	person	in	question.”
As	he	spoke	the	door	opened	and	a	young	lady	entered	the	room.	She	was	plainly	but
neatly	dressed,	with	a	bright,	quick	face,	freckled	like	a	plover’s	egg,	and	with	the	brisk
manner	of	a	woman	who	has	had	her	own	way	to	make	in	the	world.
“You	will	excuse	my	troubling	you,	I	am	sure,”	said	she,	as	my	companion	rose	to	greet
Page 176, Paragraph 1: her,	“but	I	have	had	a	very	strange	experience,	and	as	I	have	no	parents	or	relations	of	any
sort	from	whom	I	could	ask	advice,	I	thought	that	perhaps	you	would	be	kind	enough	to
tell	me	what	I	should	do.”
“Pray	take	a	seat,	**miss**	Hunter.	I	shall	be	happy	to	do	anything	that	I	can	to	serve	you.”
I	could	see	that	Holmes	was	favorably	impressed	by	the	manner	and	speech	of	his	new
client.	He	looked	her	over	in	his	searching	fashion,	and	then	composed	himself,	with	his
lids	drooping	and	his	finger-tips	together,	to	listen	to	her	story.
“I	have	been	a	governess	for	five	years,”	said	she,	“in	the	family	of	Colonel	Spence
Munro,	but	two	months	ago	the	colonel	received	an	appointment	at	Halifax,	in	Nova
Scotia,	and	took	his	children	over	to	America	with	him,	so	that	I	found	myself	without	a
situation.	I	advertised,	and	I	answered	advertisements,	but	without	success.	At	last	the
little	money	which	I	had	saved	began	to	run	short,	and	I	was	at	my	wit’s	end	as	to	what	I
should	do.
“There	is	a	well-known	agency	for	governesses	in	the	West	End	called	Westaway’s,	and
there	I	used	to	call	about	once	a	week	in	order	to	see	whether	anything	had	turned	up
which	might	suit	me.	Westaway	was	the	name	of	the	founder	of	the	business,	but	it	is
really	managed	by	**miss**	Stoper.	She	sits	in	her	own	little	office,	and	the	ladies	who	are
seeking	employment	wait	in	an	anteroom,	and	are	then	shown	in	one	by	one,	when	she
consults	her	ledgers	and	sees	whether	she	has	anything	which	would	suit	them.
“Well,	when	I	called	last	week	I	was	shown	into	the	little	office	as	usual,	but	I	found	that
**miss**	Stoper	was	not	alone.	A	prodigiously	stout	man	with	a	very	smiling	face	and	a	great
heavy	chin	which	rolled	down	in	fold	upon	fold	over	his	throat	sat	at	her	elbow	with	a	pair
of	glasses	on	his	nose,	looking	very	earnestly	at	the	ladies	who	entered.	As	I	came	in	he
gave	quite	a	jump	in	his	chair	and	turned	quickly	to	**miss**	Stoper.
“‘That	will	do,’	said	he;	‘I	could	not	ask	for	anything	better.	Capital!	capital!’	He	seemed
quite	enthusiastic	and	rubbed	his	hands	together	in	the	most	genial	fashion.	He	was	such	a
comfortable-looking	man	that	it	was	quite	a	pleasure	to	look	at	him.
“‘You	are	looking	for	a	situation,	**miss**?’	he	asked.
“‘Yes,	sir.’
“‘As	governess?’
“‘Yes,	sir.’
“‘And	what	salary	do	you	ask?’
“‘I	had	4	pounds	a	month	in	my	last	place	with	Colonel	Spence	Munro.’
“‘Oh,	tut,	tut!	sweating—rank	sweating!’	he	cried,	throwing	his	fat	hands	out	into	the	air
like	a	man	who	is	in	a	boiling	passion.	‘How	could	anyone	offer	so	pitiful	a	sum	to	a	lady
with	such	attractions	and	accomplishments?’
“‘My	accomplishments,	sir,	may	be	less	than	you	imagine,’	said	I.	‘A	little	French,	a	little
German,	music,	and	drawing	—’
“‘Tut,	tut!’	he	cried.	‘This	is	all	quite	beside	the	question.	The	point	is,	have	you	or	have
you	not	the	bearing	and	deportment	of	a	lady?	There	it	is	in	a	nutshell.	If	you	have	not,
Page 178, Paragraph 1: luxuriant,	and	of	a	rather	peculiar	tint	of	chestnut.	It	has	been	considered	artistic.	I	could
not	dream	of	sacrificing	it	in	this	offhand	fashion.
“‘I	am	afraid	that	that	is	quite	impossible,’	said	I.	He	had	been	watching	me	eagerly	out	of
his	small	eyes,	and	I	could	see	a	shadow	pass	over	his	face	as	I	spoke.
“‘I	am	afraid	that	it	is	quite	essential,’	said	he.	‘It	is	a	little	fancy	of	my	wife’s,	and	ladies’
fancies,	you	know,	madam,	ladies’	fancies	must	be	consulted.	And	so	you	won’t	cut	your
hair?’
“‘No,	sir,	I	really	could	not,’	I	answered	firmly.
“‘Ah,	very	well;	then	that	quite	settles	the	matter.	It	is	a	pity,	because	in	other	respects	you
would	really	have	done	very	nicely.	In	that	case,	**miss**	Stoper,	I	had	best	inspect	a	few
more	of	your	young	ladies.’
“The	manageress	had	sat	all	this	while	busy	with	her	papers	without	a	word	to	either	of	us,
but	she	glanced	at	me	now	with	so	much	annoyance	upon	her	face	that	I	could	not	help
suspecting	that	she	had	lost	a	handsome	commission	through	my	refusal.
“‘Do	you	desire	your	name	to	be	kept	upon	the	books?’	she	asked.
“‘If	you	please,	**miss**	Stoper.’
“‘Well,	really,	it	seems	rather	useless,	since	you	refuse	the	most	excellent	offers	in	this
fashion,’	said	she	sharply.	‘You	can	hardly	expect	us	to	exert	ourselves	to	find	another
such	opening	for	you.	Good-day	to	you,	**miss**	Hunter.’	She	struck	a	gong	upon	the	table,
and	I	was	shown	out	by	the	page.
“Well,	Mr.	Holmes,	when	I	got	back	to	my	lodgings	and	found	little	enough	in	the
cupboard,	and	two	or	three	bills	upon	the	table.	I	began	to	ask	myself	whether	I	had	not
done	a	very	foolish	thing.	After	all,	if	these	people	had	strange	fads	and	expected
obedience	on	the	most	extraordinary	matters,	they	were	at	least	ready	to	pay	for	their
eccentricity.	Very	few	governesses	in	England	are	getting	100	pounds	a	year.	Besides,
what	use	was	my	hair	to	me?	Many	people	are	improved	by	wearing	it	short	and	perhaps	I
should	be	among	the	number.	Next	day	I	was	inclined	to	think	that	I	had	made	a	mistake,
and	by	the	day	after	I	was	sure	of	it.	I	had	almost	overcome	my	pride	so	far	as	to	go	back
to	the	agency	and	inquire	whether	the	place	was	still	open	when	I	received	this	letter	from
the	gentleman	himself.	I	have	it	here	and	I	will	read	it	to	you:
“‘The	Copper	Beeches,	near	Winchester.	“‘DEAR	**miss**	HUNTER:—“**miss**	Stoper	has
very	kindly	given	me	your	address,	and	I	write	from	here	to	ask	you	whether	you	have
reconsidered	your	decision.	My	wife	is	very	anxious	that	you	should	come,	for	she	has
been	much	attracted	by	my	description	of	you.	We	are	willing	to	give	30	pounds	a	quarter,
or	120	pounds	a	year,	so	as	to	recompense	you	for	any	little	inconvenience	which	our	fads
may	cause	you.	They	are	not	very	exacting,	after	all.	My	wife	is	fond	of	a	particular	shade
of	electric	blue	and	would	like	you	to	wear	such	a	dress	indoors	in	the	morning.	You	need
not,	however,	go	to	the	expense	of	purchasing	one,	as	we	have	one	belonging	to	my	dear
daughter	Alice	(now	in	Philadelphia),	which	would,	I	should	think,	fit	you	very	well.
Then,	as	to	sitting	here	or	there,or	amusing	yourself	in	any	manner	indicated,	that	need
cause	you	no	inconvenience.	As	regards	your	hair,	it	is	no	doubt	a	pity,	especially	as	I
could	not	help	remarking	its	beauty	during	our	short	interview,	but	I	am	afraid	that	I	must
Page 179, Paragraph 1: remain	firm	upon	this	point,	and	I	only	hope	that	the	increased	salary	may	recompense
you	for	the	loss.	Your	duties,	as	far	as	the	child	is	concerned,	are	very	light.	Now	do	try	to
come,	and	I	shall	meet	you	with	the	dog-cart	at	Winchester.	Let	me	know	your	train.
“Yours	faithfully,	JEPHRO	RUCASTLE.’
“That	is	the	letter	which	I	have	just	received,	Mr.	Holmes,	and	my	mind	is	made	up	that	I
will	accept	it.	I	thought,	however,	that	before	taking	the	final	step	I	should	like	to	submit
the	whole	matter	to	your	consideration.”
“Well,	**miss**	Hunter,	if	your	mind	is	made	up,	that	settles	the	question,”	said	Holmes,
smiling.
“But	you	would	not	advise	me	to	refuse?”
“I	confess	that	it	is	not	the	situation	which	I	should	like	to	see	a	sister	of	mine	apply	for.”
“What	is	the	meaning	of	it	all,	Mr.	Holmes?”
“Ah,	I	have	no	data.	I	cannot	tell.	Perhaps	you	have	yourself	formed	some	opinion?”
“Well,	there	seems	to	me	to	be	only	one	possible	solution.	Mr.	Rucastle	seemed	to	be	a
very	kind,	good-natured	man.	Is	it	not	possible	that	his	wife	is	a	lunatic,	that	he	desires	to
keep	the	matter	quiet	for	fear	she	should	be	taken	to	an	asylum,	and	that	he	humours	her
fancies	in	every	way	in	order	to	prevent	an	outbreak?”
“That	is	a	possible	solution—in	fact,	as	matters	stand,	it	is	the	most	probable	one.	But	in
any	case	it	does	not	seem	to	be	a	nice	household	for	a	young	lady.”
“But	the	money,	Mr.	Holmes	the	money!”
“Well,	yes,	of	course	the	pay	is	good—too	good.	That	is	what	makes	me	uneasy.	Why
should	they	give	you	120	pounds	a	year,	when	they	could	have	their	pick	for	40	pounds?
There	must	be	some	strong	reason	behind.”
“I	thought	that	if	I	told	you	the	circumstances	you	would	understand	afterwards	if	I
wanted	your	help.	I	should	feel	so	much	stronger	if	I	felt	that	you	were	at	the	back	of	me.”
“Oh,	you	may	carry	that	feeling	away	with	you.	I	assure	you	that	your	little	problem
promises	to	be	the	most	interesting	which	has	come	my	way	for	some	months.	There	is
something	distinctly	novel	about	some	of	the	features.	If	you	should	find	yourself	in	doubt
or	in	danger—”
“Danger!	What	danger	do	you	foresee?”
Holmes	shook	his	head	gravely.	“It	would	cease	to	be	a	danger	if	we	could	define	it,”	said
he.	“But	at	any	time,	day	or	night,	a	telegram	would	bring	me	down	to	your	help.”
“That	is	enough.”	She	rose	briskly	from	her	chair	with	the	anxiety	all	swept	from	her	face.
“I	shall	go	down	to	Hampshire	quite	easy	in	my	mind	now.	I	shall	write	to	Mr.	Rucastle	at
once,	sacrifice	my	poor	hair	to-night,	and	start	for	Winchester	to-morrow.”	With	a	few
grateful	words	to	Holmes	she	bade	us	both	good-night	and	bustled	off	upon	her	way.
“At	least,”	said	I	as	we	heard	her	quick,	firm	steps	descending	the	stairs,	“she	seems	to	be
a	young	lady	who	is	very	well	able	to	take	care	of	herself.”
“And	she	would	need	to	be,”	said	Holmes	gravely.	“I	am	much	mistaken	if	we	do	not	hear
Page 181, Paragraph 1: mine	that	I	must	look	at	everything	with	reference	to	my	own	special	subject.	You	look	at
these	scattered	houses,	and	you	are	impressed	by	their	beauty.	I	look	at	them,	and	the	only
thought	which	comes	to	me	is	a	feeling	of	their	isolation	and	of	the	impunity	with	which
crime	may	be	committed	there.”
“Good	heavens!”	I	cried.	“Who	would	associate	crime	with	these	dear	old	homesteads?”
“They	always	fill	me	with	a	certain	horror.	It	is	my	belief,	Watson,	founded	upon	my
experience,	that	the	lowest	and	vilest	alleys	in	London	do	not	present	a	more	dreadful
record	of	sin	than	does	the	smiling	and	beautiful	countryside.”
“You	horrify	me!”
“But	the	reason	is	very	obvious.	The	pressure	of	public	opinion	can	do	in	the	town	what
the	law	cannot	accomplish.	There	is	no	lane	so	vile	that	the	scream	of	a	tortured	child,	or
the	thud	of	a	drunkard’s	blow,	does	not	beget	sympathy	and	indignation	among	the
neighbors,	and	then	the	whole	machinery	of	justice	is	ever	so	close	that	a	word	of
complaint	can	set	it	going,	and	there	is	but	a	step	between	the	crime	and	the	dock.	But
look	at	these	lonely	houses,	each	in	its	own	fields,	filled	for	the	most	part	with	poor
ignorant	folk	who	know	little	of	the	law.	Think	of	the	deeds	of	hellish	cruelty,	the	hidden
wickedness	which	may	go	on,	year	in,	year	out,	in	such	places,	and	none	the	wiser.	Had
this	lady	who	appeals	to	us	for	help	gone	to	live	in	Winchester,	I	should	never	have	had	a
fear	for	her.	It	is	the	five	miles	of	country	which	makes	the	danger.	Still,	it	is	clear	that	she
is	not	personally	threatened.”
“No.	If	she	can	come	to	Winchester	to	meet	us	she	can	get	away.”
“Quite	so.	She	has	her	freedom.”
“What	CAN	be	the	matter,	then?	Can	you	suggest	no	explanation?”
“I	have	devised	seven	separate	explanations,	each	of	which	would	cover	the	facts	as	far	as
we	know	them.	But	which	of	these	is	correct	can	only	be	determined	by	the	fresh
information	which	we	shall	no	doubt	find	waiting	for	us.	Well,	there	is	the	tower	of	the
cathedral,	and	we	shall	soon	learn	all	that	**miss**	Hunter	has	to	tell.”
The	Black	Swan	is	an	inn	of	repute	in	the	High	Street,	at	no	distance	from	the	station,	and
there	we	found	the	young	lady	waiting	for	us.	She	had	engaged	a	sitting-room,	and	our
lunch	awaited	us	upon	the	table.
“I	am	so	delighted	that	you	have	come,”	she	said	earnestly.	“It	is	so	very	kind	of	you	both;
but	indeed	I	do	not	know	what	I	should	do.	Your	advice	will	be	altogether	invaluable	to
me.”
“Pray	tell	us	what	has	happened	to	you.”
“I	will	do	so,	and	I	must	be	quick,	for	I	have	promised	Mr.	Rucastle	to	be	back	before
three.	I	got	his	leave	to	come	into	town	this	morning,	though	he	little	knew	for	what
purpose.”
“Let	us	have	everything	in	its	due	order.”	Holmes	thrust	his	long	thin	legs	out	towards	the
fire	and	composed	himself	to	listen.
“In	the	first	place,	I	may	say	that	I	have	met,	on	the	whole,	with	no	actual	ill-treatment
Page 182, Paragraph 1: from	Mr.	and	Mrs.	Rucastle.	It	is	only	fair	to	them	to	say	that.	But	I	cannot	understand
them,	and	I	am	not	easy	in	my	mind	about	them.”
“What	can	you	not	understand?”
“Their	reasons	for	their	conduct.	But	you	shall	have	it	all	just	as	it	occurred.	When	I	came
down,	Mr.	Rucastle	met	me	here	and	drove	me	in	his	dog-cart	to	the	Copper	Beeches.	It	is,
as	he	said,	beautifully	situated,	but	it	is	not	beautiful	in	itself,	for	it	is	a	large	square	block
of	a	house,	whitewashed,	but	all	stained	and	streaked	with	damp	and	bad	weather.	There
are	grounds	round	it,	woods	on	three	sides,	and	on	the	fourth	a	field	which	slopes	down	to
the	Southampton	highroad,	which	curves	past	about	a	hundred	yards	from	the	front	door.
This	ground	in	front	belongs	to	the	house,	but	the	woods	all	round	are	part	of	Lord
Southerton’s	preserves.	A	clump	of	copper	beeches	immediately	in	front	of	the	hall	door
has	given	its	name	to	the	place.
“I	was	driven	over	by	my	employer,	who	was	as	amiable	as	ever,	and	was	introduced	by
him	that	evening	to	his	wife	and	the	child.	There	was	no	truth,	Mr.	Holmes,	in	the
conjecture	which	seemed	to	us	to	be	probable	in	your	rooms	at	Baker	Street.	Mrs.	Rucastle
is	not	mad.	I	found	her	to	be	a	silent,	pale-faced	woman,	much	younger	than	her	husband,
not	more	than	thirty,	I	should	think,	while	he	can	hardly	be	less	than	forty-five.	From	their
conversation	I	have	gathered	that	they	have	been	married	about	seven	years,	that	he	was	a
widower,	and	that	his	only	child	by	the	first	wife	was	the	daughter	who	has	gone	to
Philadelphia.	Mr.	Rucastle	told	me	in	private	that	the	reason	why	she	had	left	them	was
that	she	had	an	unreasoning	aversion	to	her	stepmother.	As	the	daughter	could	not	have
been	less	than	twenty,	I	can	quite	imagine	that	her	position	must	have	been	uncomfortable
with	her	father’s	young	wife.
“Mrs.	Rucastle	seemed	to	me	to	be	colorless	in	mind	as	well	as	in	feature.	She	impressed
me	neither	favorably	nor	the	reverse.	She	was	a	nonentity.	It	was	easy	to	see	that	she	was
passionately	devoted	both	to	her	husband	and	to	her	little	son.	Her	light	gray	eyes
wandered	continually	from	one	to	the	other,	noting	every	little	want	and	forestalling	it	if
possible.	He	was	kind	to	her	also	in	his	bluff,	boisterous	fashion,	and	on	the	whole	they
seemed	to	be	a	happy	couple.	And	yet	she	had	some	secret	sorrow,	this	woman.	She	would
often	be	lost	in	deep	thought,	with	the	saddest	look	upon	her	face.	More	than	once	I	have
surprised	her	in	tears.	I	have	thought	sometimes	that	it	was	the	disposition	of	her	child
which	weighed	upon	her	mind,	for	I	have	never	met	so	utterly	spoiled	and	so	ill-natured	a
little	creature.	He	is	small	for	his	age,	with	a	head	which	is	quite	disproportionately	large.
His	whole	life	appears	to	be	spent	in	an	alternation	between	savage	fits	of	passion	and
gloomy	intervals	of	sulking.	Giving	pain	to	any	creature	weaker	than	himself	seems	to	be
his	one	idea	of	amusement,	and	he	shows	quite	remarkable	talent	in	planning	the	capture
of	mice,	little	birds,	and	insects.	But	I	would	rather	not	talk	about	the	creature,	Mr.
Holmes,	and,	indeed,	he	has	little	to	do	with	my	story.”
“I	am	glad	of	all	details,”	remarked	my	friend,	“whether	they	seem	to	you	to	be	relevant	or
not.”
“I	shall	try	not	to	**miss**	anything	of	importance.	The	one	unpleasant	thing	about	the	house,
which	struck	me	at	once,	was	the	appearance	and	conduct	of	the	servants.	There	are	only
two,	a	man	and	his	wife.	Toller,	for	that	is	his	name,	is	a	rough,	uncouth	man,	with
Page 183, Paragraph 1: grizzled	hair	and	whiskers,	and	a	perpetual	smell	of	drink.	Twice	since	I	have	been	with
them	he	has	been	quite	drunk,	and	yet	Mr.	Rucastle	seemed	to	take	no	notice	of	it.	His
wife	is	a	very	tall	and	strong	woman	with	a	sour	face,	as	silent	as	Mrs.	Rucastle	and	much
less	amiable.	They	are	a	most	unpleasant	couple,	but	fortunately	I	spend	most	of	my	time
in	the	nursery	and	my	own	room,	which	are	next	to	each	other	in	one	corner	of	the
building.
“For	two	days	after	my	arrival	at	the	Copper	Beeches	my	life	was	very	quiet;	on	the	third,
Mrs.	Rucastle	came	down	just	after	breakfast	and	whispered	something	to	her	husband.
“‘Oh,	yes,’	said	he,	turning	to	me,	‘we	are	very	much	obliged	to	you,	**miss**	Hunter,	for
falling	in	with	our	whims	so	far	as	to	cut	your	hair.	I	assure	you	that	it	has	not	detracted	in
the	tiniest	iota	from	your	appearance.	We	shall	now	see	how	the	electric-blue	dress	will
become	you.	You	will	find	it	laid	out	upon	the	bed	in	your	room,	and	if	you	would	be	so
good	as	to	put	it	on	we	should	both	be	extremely	obliged.’
“The	dress	which	I	found	waiting	for	me	was	of	a	peculiar	shade	of	blue.	It	was	of
excellent	material,	a	sort	of	beige,	but	it	bore	unmistakable	signs	of	having	been	worn
before.	It	could	not	have	been	a	better	fit	if	I	had	been	measured	for	it.	Both	Mr.	and	Mrs.
Rucastle	expressed	a	delight	at	the	look	of	it,	which	seemed	quite	exaggerated	in	its
vehemence.	They	were	waiting	for	me	in	the	drawing-room,	which	is	a	very	large	room,
stretching	along	the	entire	front	of	the	house,	with	three	long	windows	reaching	down	to
the	floor.	A	chair	had	been	placed	close	to	the	central	window,	with	its	back	turned
towards	it.	In	this	I	was	asked	to	sit,	and	then	Mr.	Rucastle,	walking	up	and	down	on	the
other	side	of	the	room,	began	to	tell	me	a	series	of	the	funniest	stories	that	I	have	ever
listened	to.	You	cannot	imagine	how	comical	he	was,	and	I	laughed	until	I	was	quite
weary.	Mrs.	Rucastle,	however,	who	has	evidently	no	sense	of	humour,	never	so	much	as
smiled,	but	sat	with	her	hands	in	her	lap,	and	a	sad,	anxious	look	upon	her	face.	After	an
hour	or	so,	Mr.	Rucastle	suddenly	remarked	that	it	was	time	to	commence	the	duties	of	the
day,	and	that	I	might	change	my	dress	and	go	to	little	Edward	in	the	nursery.
“Two	days	later	this	same	performance	was	gone	through	under	exactly	similar
circumstances.	Again	I	changed	my	dress,	again	I	sat	in	the	window,	and	again	I	laughed
very	heartily	at	the	funny	stories	of	which	my	employer	had	an	immense	repertoire,	and
which	he	told	inimitably.	Then	he	handed	me	a	yellow-backed	novel,	and	moving	my
chair	a	little	sideways,	that	my	own	shadow	might	not	fall	upon	the	page,	he	begged	me	to
read	aloud	to	him.	I	read	for	about	ten	minutes,	beginning	in	the	heart	of	a	chapter,	and
then	suddenly,	in	the	middle	of	a	sentence,	he	ordered	me	to	cease	and	to	change	my	dress.
“You	can	easily	imagine,	Mr.	Holmes,	how	curious	I	became	as	to	what	the	meaning	of
this	extraordinary	performance	could	possibly	be.	They	were	always	very	careful,	I
observed,	to	turn	my	face	away	from	the	window,	so	that	I	became	consumed	with	the
desire	to	see	what	was	going	on	behind	my	back.	At	first	it	seemed	to	be	impossible,	but	I
soon	devised	a	means.	My	hand-mirror	had	been	broken,	so	a	happy	thought	seized	me,
and	I	concealed	a	piece	of	the	glass	in	my	handkerchief.	On	the	next	occasion,	in	the	midst
of	my	laughter,	I	put	my	handkerchief	up	to	my	eyes,	and	was	able	with	a	little
management	to	see	all	that	there	was	behind	me.	I	confess	that	I	was	disappointed.	There
was	nothing.	At	least	that	was	my	first	impression.	At	the	second	glance,	however,	I
perceived	that	there	was	a	man	standing	in	the	Southampton	Road,	a	small	bearded	man	in
Page 184, Paragraph 1: a	gray	suit,	who	seemed	to	be	looking	in	my	direction.	The	road	is	an	important	highway,
and	there	are	usually	people	there.	This	man,	however,	was	leaning	against	the	railings
which	bordered	our	field	and	was	looking	earnestly	up.	I	lowered	my	handkerchief	and
glanced	at	Mrs.	Rucastle	to	find	her	eyes	fixed	upon	me	with	a	most	searching	gaze.	She
said	nothing,	but	I	am	convinced	that	she	had	divined	that	I	had	a	mirror	in	my	hand	and
had	seen	what	was	behind	me.	She	rose	at	once.
“‘Jephro,’	said	she,	‘there	is	an	impertinent	fellow	upon	the	road	there	who	stares	up	at
**miss**	Hunter.’
“‘No	friend	of	yours,	**miss**	Hunter?’	he	asked.
“‘No,	I	know	no	one	in	these	parts.’
“‘Dear	me!	How	very	impertinent!	Kindly	turn	round	and	motion	to	him	to	go	away.’
“‘Surely	it	would	be	better	to	take	no	notice.’
“‘No,	no,	we	should	have	him	loitering	here	always.	Kindly	turn	round	and	wave	him
away	like	that.’
“I	did	as	I	was	told,	and	at	the	same	instant	Mrs.	Rucastle	drew	down	the	blind.	That	was	a
week	ago,	and	from	that	time	I	have	not	sat	again	in	the	window,	nor	have	I	worn	the	blue
dress,	nor	seen	the	man	in	the	road.”
“Pray	continue,”	said	Holmes.	“Your	narrative	promises	to	be	a	most	interesting	one.”
“You	will	find	it	rather	disconnected,	I	fear,	and	there	may	prove	to	be	little	relation
between	the	different	incidents	of	which	I	speak.	On	the	very	first	day	that	I	was	at	the
Copper	Beeches,	Mr.	Rucastle	took	me	to	a	small	outhouse	which	stands	near	the	kitchen
door.	As	we	approached	it	I	heard	the	sharp	rattling	of	a	chain,	and	the	sound	as	of	a	large
animal	moving	about.
“‘Look	in	here!’	said	Mr.	Rucastle,	showing	me	a	slit	between	two	planks.	‘Is	he	not	a
beauty?’
“I	looked	through	and	was	conscious	of	two	glowing	eyes,	and	of	a	vague	figure	huddled
up	in	the	darkness.
“‘Don’t	be	frightened,’	said	my	employer,	laughing	at	the	start	which	I	had	given.	‘It’s
only	Carlo,	my	mastiff.	I	call	him	mine,	but	really	old	Toller,	my	groom,	is	the	only	man
who	can	do	anything	with	him.	We	feed	him	once	a	day,	and	not	too	much	then,	so	that	he
is	always	as	keen	as	mustard.	Toller	lets	him	loose	every	night,	and	God	help	the
trespasser	whom	he	lays	his	fangs	upon.	For	goodness’	sake	don’t	you	ever	on	any	pretext
set	your	foot	over	the	threshold	at	night,	for	it’s	as	much	as	your	life	is	worth.’
“The	warning	was	no	idle	one,	for	two	nights	later	I	happened	to	look	out	of	my	bedroom
window	about	two	o’clock	in	the	morning.	It	was	a	beautiful	moonlight	night,	and	the
lawn	in	front	of	the	house	was	silvered	over	and	almost	as	bright	as	day.	I	was	standing,
rapt	in	the	peaceful	beauty	of	the	scene,	when	I	was	aware	that	something	was	moving
under	the	shadow	of	the	copper	beeches.	As	it	emerged	into	the	moonshine	I	saw	what	it
was.	It	was	a	giant	dog,	as	large	as	a	calf,	tawny	tinted,	with	hanging	jowl,	black	muzzle,
and	huge	projecting	bones.	It	walked	slowly	across	the	lawn	and	vanished	into	the	shadow
Page 187, Paragraph 1: “‘Why	do	you	think	that	I	lock	this	door?’
“‘I	am	sure	that	I	do	not	know.’
“‘It	is	to	keep	people	out	who	have	no	business	there.	Do	you	see?’	He	was	still	smiling	in
the	most	amiable	manner.
“‘I	am	sure	if	I	had	known—’
“‘Well,	then,	you	know	now.	And	if	you	ever	put	your	foot	over	that	threshold	again’—
here	in	an	instant	the	smile	hardened	into	a	grin	of	rage,	and	he	glared	down	at	me	with
the	face	of	a	demon—‘I’ll	throw	you	to	the	mastiff.’
“I	was	so	terrified	that	I	do	not	know	what	I	did.	I	suppose	that	I	must	have	rushed	past
him	into	my	room.	I	remember	nothing	until	I	found	myself	lying	on	my	bed	trembling	all
over.	Then	I	thought	of	you,	Mr.	Holmes.	I	could	not	live	there	longer	without	some
advice.	I	was	frightened	of	the	house,	of	the	man	of	the	woman,	of	the	servants,	even	of
the	child.	They	were	all	horrible	to	me.	If	I	could	only	bring	you	down	all	would	be	well.
Of	course	I	might	have	fled	from	the	house,	but	my	curiosity	was	almost	as	strong	as	my
fears.	My	mind	was	soon	made	up.	I	would	send	you	a	wire.	I	put	on	my	hat	and	cloak,
went	down	to	the	office,	which	is	about	half	a	mile	from	the	house,	and	then	returned,
feeling	very	much	easier.	A	horrible	doubt	came	into	my	mind	as	I	approached	the	door
lest	the	dog	might	be	loose,	but	I	remembered	that	Toller	had	drunk	himself	into	a	state	of
insensibility	that	evening,	and	I	knew	that	he	was	the	only	one	in	the	household	who	had
any	influence	with	the	savage	creature,	or	who	would	venture	to	set	him	free.	I	slipped	in
in	safety	and	lay	awake	half	the	night	in	my	joy	at	the	thought	of	seeing	you.	I	had	no
difficulty	in	getting	leave	to	come	into	Winchester	this	morning,	but	I	must	be	back	before
three	o’clock,	for	Mr.	and	Mrs.	Rucastle	are	going	on	a	visit,	and	will	be	away	all	the
evening,	so	that	I	must	look	after	the	child.	Now	I	have	told	you	all	my	adventures,	Mr.
Holmes,	and	I	should	be	very	glad	if	you	could	tell	me	what	it	all	means,	and,	above	all,
what	I	should	do.”
Holmes	and	I	had	listened	spellbound	to	this	extraordinary	story.	My	friend	rose	now	and
paced	up	and	down	the	room,	his	hands	in	his	pockets,	and	an	expression	of	the	most
profound	gravity	upon	his	face.
“Is	Toller	still	drunk?”	he	asked.
“Yes.	I	heard	his	wife	tell	Mrs.	Rucastle	that	she	could	do	nothing	with	him.”
“That	is	well.	And	the	Rucastles	go	out	to-night?”
“Yes.”
“Is	there	a	cellar	with	a	good	strong	lock?”
“Yes,	the	wine-cellar.”
“You	seem	to	me	to	have	acted	all	through	this	matter	like	a	very	brave	and	sensible	girl,
**miss**	Hunter.	Do	you	think	that	you	could	perform	one	more	feat?	I	should	not	ask	it	of
you	if	I	did	not	think	you	a	quite	exceptional	woman.”
“I	will	try.	What	is	it?”
“We	shall	be	at	the	Copper	Beeches	by	seven	o’clock,	my	friend	and	I.	The	Rucastles	will
Page 188, Paragraph 1: be	gone	by	that	time,	and	Toller	will,	we	hope,	be	incapable.	There	only	remains	Mrs.
Toller,	who	might	give	the	alarm.	If	you	could	send	her	into	the	cellar	on	some	errand,	and
then	turn	the	key	upon	her,	you	would	facilitate	matters	immensely.”
“I	will	do	it.”
“Excellent!	We	shall	then	look	thoroughly	into	the	affair.	Of	course	there	is	only	one
feasible	explanation.	You	have	been	brought	there	to	personate	someone,	and	the	real
person	is	imprisoned	in	this	chamber.	That	is	obvious.	As	to	who	this	prisoner	is,	I	have	no
doubt	that	it	is	the	daughter,	**miss**	Alice	Rucastle,	if	I	remember	right,	who	was	said	to
have	gone	to	America.	You	were	chosen,	doubtless,	as	resembling	her	in	height,	figure,
and	the	color	of	your	hair.	Hers	had	been	cut	off,	very	possibly	in	some	illness	through
which	she	has	passed,	and	so,	of	course,	yours	had	to	be	sacrificed	also.	By	a	curious
chance	you	came	upon	her	tresses.	The	man	in	the	road	was	undoubtedly	some	friend	of
hers—possibly	her	fiance—and	no	doubt,	as	you	wore	the	girl’s	dress	and	were	so	like
her,	he	was	convinced	from	your	laughter,	whenever	he	saw	you,	and	afterwards	from
your	gesture,	that	**miss**	Rucastle	was	perfectly	happy,	and	that	she	no	longer	desired	his
attentions.	The	dog	is	let	loose	at	night	to	prevent	him	from	endeavoring	to	communicate
with	her.	So	much	is	fairly	clear.	The	most	serious	point	in	the	case	is	the	disposition	of
the	child.”
“What	on	earth	has	that	to	do	with	it?”	I	ejaculated.
“My	dear	Watson,	you	as	a	medical	man	are	continually	gaining	light	as	to	the	tendencies
of	a	child	by	the	study	of	the	parents.	Don’t	you	see	that	the	converse	is	equally	valid.	I
have	frequently	gained	my	first	real	insight	into	the	character	of	parents	by	studying	their
children.	This	child’s	disposition	is	abnormally	cruel,	merely	for	cruelty’s	sake,	and
whether	he	derives	this	from	his	smiling	father,	as	I	should	suspect,	or	from	his	mother,	it
bodes	evil	for	the	poor	girl	who	is	in	their	power.”
“I	am	sure	that	you	are	right,	Mr.	Holmes,”	cried	our	client.	“A	thousand	things	come	back
to	me	which	make	me	certain	that	you	have	hit	it.	Oh,	let	us	lose	not	an	instant	in	bringing
help	to	this	poor	creature.”
“We	must	be	circumspect,	for	we	are	dealing	with	a	very	cunning	man.	We	can	do	nothing
until	seven	o’clock.	At	that	hour	we	shall	be	with	you,	and	it	will	not	be	long	before	we
solve	the	mystery.”
We	were	as	good	as	our	word,	for	it	was	just	seven	when	we	reached	the	Copper	Beeches,
having	put	up	our	trap	at	a	wayside	public-house.	The	group	of	trees,	with	their	dark
leaves	shining	like	burnished	metal	in	the	light	of	the	setting	sun,	were	sufficient	to	mark
the	house	even	had	**miss**	Hunter	not	been	standing	smiling	on	the	door-step.
“Have	you	managed	it?”	asked	Holmes.
A	loud	thudding	noise	came	from	somewhere	downstairs.	“That	is	Mrs.	Toller	in	the
cellar,”	said	she.	“Her	husband	lies	snoring	on	the	kitchen	rug.	Here	are	his	keys,	which
are	the	duplicates	of	Mr.	Rucastle’s.”
“You	have	done	well	indeed!”	cried	Holmes	with	enthusiasm.	“Now	lead	the	way,	and	we
shall	soon	see	the	end	of	this	black	business.”
Page 189, Paragraph 1: We	passed	up	the	stair,	unlocked	the	door,	followed	on	down	a	passage,	and	found
ourselves	in	front	of	the	barricade	which	**miss**	Hunter	had	described.	Holmes	cut	the	cord
and	removed	the	transverse	bar.	Then	he	tried	the	various	keys	in	the	lock,	but	without
success.	No	sound	came	from	within,	and	at	the	silence	Holmes’s	face	clouded	over.
“I	trust	that	we	are	not	too	late,”	said	he.	“I	think,	**miss**	Hunter,	that	we	had	better	go	in
without	you.	Now,	Watson,	put	your	shoulder	to	it,	and	we	shall	see	whether	we	cannot
make	our	way	in.”
It	was	an	old	rickety	door	and	gave	at	once	before	our	united	strength.	Together	we	rushed
into	the	room.	It	was	empty.	There	was	no	furniture	save	a	little	pallet	bed,	a	small	table,
and	a	basketful	of	linen.	The	skylight	above	was	open,	and	the	prisoner	gone.
“There	has	been	some	villainy	here,”	said	Holmes;	“this	beauty	has	guessed	**miss**	Hunter’s
intentions	and	has	carried	his	victim	off.”
“But	how?”
“Through	the	skylight.	We	shall	soon	see	how	he	managed	it.”	He	swung	himself	up	onto
the	roof.	“Ah,	yes,”	he	cried,	“here’s	the	end	of	a	long	light	ladder	against	the	eaves.	That
is	how	he	did	it.”
“But	it	is	impossible,”	said	**miss**	Hunter;	“the	ladder	was	not	there	when	the	Rucastles
went	away.”
“He	has	come	back	and	done	it.	I	tell	you	that	he	is	a	clever	and	dangerous	man.	I	should
not	be	very	much	surprised	if	this	were	he	whose	step	I	hear	now	upon	the	stair.	I	think,
Watson,	that	it	would	be	as	well	for	you	to	have	your	pistol	ready.”
The	words	were	hardly	out	of	his	mouth	before	a	man	appeared	at	the	door	of	the	room,	a
very	fat	and	burly	man,	with	a	heavy	stick	in	his	hand.	**miss**	Hunter	screamed	and	shrunk
against	the	wall	at	the	sight	of	him,	but	Sherlock	Holmes	sprang	forward	and	confronted
him.
“You	villain!”	said	he,	“where’s	your	daughter?”
The	fat	man	cast	his	eyes	round,	and	then	up	at	the	open	skylight.
“It	is	for	me	to	ask	you	that,”	he	shrieked,	“you	thieves!	Spies	and	thieves!	I	have	caught
you,	have	I?	You	are	in	my	power.	I’ll	serve	you!”	He	turned	and	clattered	down	the	stairs
as	hard	as	he	could	go.
“He’s	gone	for	the	dog!”	cried	**miss**	Hunter.
“I	have	my	revolver,”	said	I.
“Better	close	the	front	door,”	cried	Holmes,	and	we	all	rushed	down	the	stairs	together.	We
had	hardly	reached	the	hall	when	we	heard	the	baying	of	a	hound,	and	then	a	scream	of
agony,	with	a	horrible	worrying	sound	which	it	was	dreadful	to	listen	to.	An	elderly	man
with	a	red	face	and	shaking	limbs	came	staggering	out	at	a	side	door.
“My	God!”	he	cried.	“Someone	has	loosed	the	dog.	It’s	not	been	fed	for	two	days.	Quick,
quick,	or	it’ll	be	too	late!”
Holmes	and	I	rushed	out	and	round	the	angle	of	the	house,	with	Toller	hurrying	behind	us.
Page 190, Paragraph 1: There	was	the	huge	famished	brute,	its	black	muzzle	buried	in	Rucastle’s	throat,	while	he
writhed	and	screamed	upon	the	ground.	Running	up,	I	blew	its	brains	out,	and	it	fell	over
with	its	keen	white	teeth	still	meeting	in	the	great	creases	of	his	neck.	With	much	labour
we	separated	them	and	carried	him,	living	but	horribly	mangled,	into	the	house.	We	laid
him	upon	the	drawing-room	sofa,	and	having	dispatched	the	sobered	Toller	to	bear	the
news	to	his	wife,	I	did	what	I	could	to	relieve	his	pain.	We	were	all	assembled	round	him
when	the	door	opened,	and	a	tall,	gaunt	woman	entered	the	room.
“Mrs.	Toller!”	cried	**miss**	Hunter.
“Yes,	**miss**.	Mr.	Rucastle	let	me	out	when	he	came	back	before	he	went	up	to	you.	Ah,
**miss**,	it	is	a	pity	you	didn’t	let	me	know	what	you	were	planning,	for	I	would	have	told
you	that	your	pains	were	wasted.”
“Ha!”	said	Holmes,	looking	keenly	at	her.	“It	is	clear	that	Mrs.	Toller	knows	more	about
this	matter	than	anyone	else.”
“Yes,	sir,	I	do,	and	I	am	ready	enough	to	tell	what	I	know.”
“Then,	pray,	sit	down,	and	let	us	hear	it	for	there	are	several	points	on	which	I	must
confess	that	I	am	still	in	the	dark.”
“I	will	soon	make	it	clear	to	you,”	said	she;	“and	I’d	have	done	so	before	now	if	I	could
ha’	got	out	from	the	cellar.	If	there’s	police-court	business	over	this,	you’ll	remember	that
I	was	the	one	that	stood	your	friend,	and	that	I	was	**miss**	Alice’s	friend	too.
“She	was	never	happy	at	home,	**miss**	Alice	wasn’t,	from	the	time	that	her	father	married
again.	She	was	slighted	like	and	had	no	say	in	anything,	but	it	never	really	became	bad	for
her	until	after	she	met	Mr.	Fowler	at	a	friend’s	house.	As	well	as	I	could	learn,	**miss**	Alice
had	rights	of	her	own	by	will,	but	she	was	so	quiet	and	patient,	she	was,	that	she	never
said	a	word	about	them	but	just	left	everything	in	Mr.	Rucastle’s	hands.	He	knew	he	was
safe	with	her;	but	when	there	was	a	chance	of	a	husband	coming	forward,	who	would	ask
for	all	that	the	law	would	give	him,	then	her	father	thought	it	time	to	put	a	stop	on	it.	He
wanted	her	to	sign	a	paper,	so	that	whether	she	married	or	not,	he	could	use	her	money.
When	she	wouldn’t	do	it,	he	kept	on	worrying	her	until	she	got	brain-fever,	and	for	six
weeks	was	at	death’s	door.	Then	she	got	better	at	last,	all	worn	to	a	shadow,	and	with	her
beautiful	hair	cut	off;	but	that	didn’t	make	no	change	in	her	young	man,	and	he	stuck	to
her	as	true	as	man	could	be.”
“Ah,”	said	Holmes,	“I	think	that	what	you	have	been	good	enough	to	tell	us	makes	the
matter	fairly	clear,	and	that	I	can	deduce	all	that	remains.	Mr.	Rucastle	then,	I	presume,
took	to	this	system	of	imprisonment?”
“Yes,	sir.”
“And	brought	**miss**	Hunter	down	from	London	in	order	to	get	rid	of	the	disagreeable
persistence	of	Mr.	Fowler.”
“That	was	it,	sir.”
“But	Mr.	Fowler	being	a	persevering	man,	as	a	good	seaman	should	be,	blockaded	the
house,	and	having	met	you	succeeded	by	certain	arguments,	metallic	or	otherwise,	in
convincing	you	that	your	interests	were	the	same	as	his.”
Page 191, Paragraph 1: “Mr.	Fowler	was	a	very	kind-spoken,	free-handed	gentleman,”	said	Mrs.	Toller	serenely.
“And	in	this	way	he	managed	that	your	good	man	should	have	no	want	of	drink,	and	that	a
ladder	should	be	ready	at	the	moment	when	your	master	had	gone	out.”
“You	have	it,	sir,	just	as	it	happened.”
“I	am	sure	we	owe	you	an	apology,	Mrs.	Toller,”	said	Holmes,	“for	you	have	certainly
cleared	up	everything	which	puzzled	us.	And	here	comes	the	country	surgeon	and	Mrs.
Rucastle,	so	I	think.	Watson,	that	we	had	best	escort	**miss**	Hunter	back	to	Winchester,	as	it
seems	to	me	that	our	locus	standi	now	is	rather	a	questionable	one.”
And	thus	was	solved	the	mystery	of	the	sinister	house	with	the	copper	beeches	in	front	of
the	door.	Mr.	Rucastle	survived,	but	was	always	a	broken	man,	kept	alive	solely	through
the	care	of	his	devoted	wife.	They	still	live	with	their	old	servants,	who	probably	know	so
much	of	Rucastle’s	past	life	that	he	finds	it	difficult	to	part	from	them.	Mr.	Fowler	and
**miss**	Rucastle	were	married,	by	special	license,	in	Southampton	the	day	after	their	flight,
and	he	is	now	the	holder	of	a	government	appointment	in	the	island	of	Mauritius.	As	to
**miss**	Violet	Hunter,	my	friend	Holmes,	rather	to	my	disappointment,	manifested	no	further
interest	in	her	when	once	she	had	ceased	to	be	the	centre	of	one	of	his	problems,	and	she	is
now	the	head	of	a	private	school	at	Walsall,	where	I	believe	that	she	has	met	with
considerable	success.